# Chapter 1: Belief Drives Behavior

“AS A MAN THINKETH IN HIS HEART, SO IS HE.” Thus says the Book of Proverbs, and it isn’t being gender-specific. All of us act as we do because we believe as we do, even if the huge preponderance of our belief system is, like an iceberg, beneath the surface of conscious thought, in our unconscious. You’ve already seen, in the Preface you read moments ago, the two most critically important inputs to any and all successful client acquisition disciplines. Again, those two qualities are passion and perseverance. I doubt that anyone can maintain an effective client acquisition discipline over long periods of time without a passionate belief in the importance of what he/she is doing. Only that belief can sustain you. Passion gives you the will, the strength and even the joy to persevere. Prospecting isn’t natural. Jumping out of the bushes at people, and asking them to entrust their whole financial lives to us lest they perish, is not something any of us grew up dreaming of doing, or practicing to do. Yet it suddenly becomes our profession, and indeed is the key to whether we survive, much less prosper, in our

chosen calling. Start with that perfectly human realization: that, no matter how much you may consciously accept and even embrace it, unconsciously prospecting is just naturally going to feel unnatural—until you’ve done so much of it that it becomes second nature. Next, as we’ve seen, prospecting is a numbers game. You should plan on having to listen to a whole bunch of “no” in order to hear a single “yes.” Again, we easily accept this intellectually: that the only way in the world ever to hear “yes” is to embrace the risk of hearing “no.” And that you will hear “no” far more often than you will hear “yes.” That’s the deal we made with life. That’s the game we signed up to play. Our conscious mind is totally checked out on this. But down below the surface, the unconscious too often experiences “no” as “rejection” that “hurts.” After all (it reasons), we’re good people. We came into this business out of a powerful desire to help other people. We’re smart, diligent and above all trustworthy. We want, and believe deeply that we deserve, acceptance. But the vast majority of the people we approach is saying “no”—is rejecting us. And that hurts. In fact, “no” doesn’t hurt. For that matter, it isn’t even “rejection.” Both of those responses to “no”—that we have been personally rejected, and that it hurts—are unconscious beliefs. They exist only in our own insecurity and sensitivity. They have no basis in externally verifiable reality.

We caught someone in the middle of his business day; he was too distracted even to listen all the way through to our offer of help; he said “no.” He didn’t give it a moment’s thought, and a couple of minutes later won’t even remember that it happened. The electric shock of “rejection that hurts” is entirely generated in our unconscious. It didn’t happen, but it is no less real, because we believe it happened. And, believing that it happened—and that it seems to happen almost every time we prospect—we will eventually have to stop prospecting. It will just be too painful. This is the essential reason most people who leave the business do so: they believe they’re having an experience which has, in fact, no objective reality. But it’s so real inside their emotional belief system that it ultimately takes them out. That’s why this first section of the book is titled “Belief.” We will get to “Behavior” plenty soon enough. But you cannot possibly assemble an appropriate pattern of behavior—and will surely never be able to sustain one—until you clearly establish a coherent and compelling belief system: about the profession we’ve chosen, about prospecting as the essential work of that profession, about human nature, and above all about yourself. Let’s begin building that belief system by making sure we completely understand the fundamental nature of what we do.
