# Chapter 2: A Business of Doing, Not of Knowing

THE BUSINESS OF PROFESSIONAL FINANCIAL ADVICE DEMANDS OF its practitioners a significant degree of intelligence. Life insurance, investments, and financial planning are all highly specialized and technical areas of expertise. Moreover, they are always changing. You can never get to the bottom of them. You can never learn all there is to be learned. It is only natural and human for the person entering this profession instinctively to seek some acceptable level of expertise before she will feel confident to begin a high level of prospecting. This is an emotional deathtrap. It’s very often the first manifestation of prospecting anxiety/avoidance that a new advisor experiences. And it is an ironclad guarantee of failure. “Enough” knowledge is a toxic and invariably fatal illusion. In quest of “enough,” you will just sit there, learning more things and avoiding prospecting, until you are invited to leave. And you’ll actually be surprised, because you’ve so obviously been working diligently, all day every day, to become properly prepared. Such is the power of the dark force that Steven Pressfield, in his brilliant selfhelp book The War of Art, calls Resistance, and which I’ve chosen to call—in the narrow context of prospecting—Avoidance.

Ours is a business of doing, not of knowing. The financial advisory profession does not reward us for what we know. It rewards us for what we do, and are able to persuade our prospects and clients to do. Moreover, we can always learn by doing, but we can never do by learning. This perception should in no way be taken as a denigration of knowledge. It’s simply a commentary on how people of our personality type learn. And may go on learning, every day for the rest of our careers. Few people entering our profession realize it—I certainly didn’t—but we’ve chosen a calling in which you can just keep getting smarter, both intellectually and emotionally, year after year and decade after decade. So it will be with us, if we stick around trying to learn something every day. I’m simply endeavoring, before anything else, to disabuse you of the notion that knowledge is in any way a necessary precondition of effective prospecting. If on the first day of my career I don’t fully understand the use of variable universal life insurance in a life insurance trust for estate planning purposes, I certainly know someone in my firm’s advanced underwriting unit who does, and who can explain it to my prospect and his attorney. If I don’t have any sense of where we are in the economic and market cycle, the successful advisors around me can suggest the sources that they read and rely on. I can answer a prospect’s questions without falsely masquerading as “the expert.” If I don’t know how to analyze mutual funds/ETFs, I certainly have my

firm’s model portfolios of active and passive solutions, and internal product specialists who can explain those choices to my prospects both for and with me. I’m not daunted by what I personally don’t know yet, so long as during my training I learned who the experts are—in my firm and among its quality product providers—and I know that they exist to make me successful. What more could I reasonably require, at the outset of a career? I will certainly learn everything I need to know—and everything I don’t, which will turn out to be even more important—by listening to the questions prospects ask me, and either researching the answers myself or wheeling in the experts, and absorbing their answers. The uncaused cause of this endlessly accumulating body of knowledge is that I keep prospecting, which in this context simply means: I keep giving myself more and more opportunities to learn, and to become thereby a better advisor. Once more, because it is so critical: we can always learn by doing. We can never do by learning.
