# Chapter 3: You're Building Your Own Business

3 You’re Building Your Own Business IF YOU DECIDED TO BUY A DRY CLEANING STORE, A RESTAURANT, A plumbing and heating business, or a UPS Store franchise that had a million dollars of gross revenues, you would have to come up with an investment of at least several hundred thousand dollars, depending on the profitability of the enterprise you were acquiring. And you would still have no assurance that, under your new management, you’d be able to maintain the previous owner’s profit margins. Alternatively, you might decide to start your own business, again involving some very significant investment in office space, plant, equipment and inventory—and still with no guarantee of success, nor even that you’d be able to recover your investment. If you go to work in corporate America, it might take you 20 years and more to arrive anywhere near the level at which you could earn upwards of a million dollars a year. And yet again, there’s no assurance that you’d ever get there. Along the way, you might have to deal with bosses you couldn’t abide, endure endless rounds of office politics, and perhaps have to accept being transferred all over creation every few years in order to keep moving up the corporate ladder. At the culmination of which, your employer might be sold, merged, or otherwise disposed of in such a way that you’d receive a severance package and directions to the down escalator.

Fortunately, you haven’t embarked on any of those dauntingly arduous and uncertain career paths. Instead, perhaps without realizing you’d done so, you’ve signed up for a miracle. You’ve chosen one of the highest-paying professions on earth. Indeed, there is, as we’ve seen, no limit on your earnings other than that which you impose on yourself. The investment demanded of you as the cost of entry into this limitlessly remunerative business is exactly zero. In fact, your employer will spend tens if not hundreds of thousands of dollars to train you, and will then equip you with technology, products and services to offer, and a host of other resources which were inconceivable when I entered the profession. Moreover, beyond the planning and product offerings of your own firm, an army of high-quality insurers, money management firms and other product providers will fall all over themselves trying to get you to place your clients’ business with them, and will be prepared to invest significantly in the growth of your business in return. Their wholesalers will put on seminars for you, make calls with you, and generally help you capture business you might not yet be capable of securing for yourself, all the while teaching you the most powerful responses to the most common questions and objections. If you can even believe this, you may also be paid a salary while you are training to be licensed, and even thereafter, as you begin building your practice. You will make your own hours, and set your own vacation schedule. You will ultimately answer to no one. That is,

while you will surely have a manager, you will never really have a boss, in the sense of someone who can order you to do things, or sell things, or deal with clients you don’t like. Your capacity for self-expression—to be exactly the kind of caring and competent advisor you dream of becoming—will be unconstrained. A successful advisor can never be unemployed. Indeed, the practitioner with a thriving business will experience intense and highly lucrative competition for her services. This fact will not be lost on her current employer, who will strive to make her working environment as conducive as he can. You can’t be replaced by a younger person who makes half what you do, because your clients—people who are actively and consciously relying on you for the direction of their financial future—are just that: your clients. Indeed, as long as you remember that you—not your plan, or your portfolios, or your insurance policies—are the product, you can never be replaced, because you can never be replicated. There’s only one you. Moreover, once your advice is clearly established as the governing variable in clients’ financial lives, any remaining sensitivity they might have toward what you cost goes pretty much out the window. No reasonable person, and certainly no one who has enough experience of the world to have accumulated any real money, expects the highest quality advice from the low-cost producer.

And at the end of your career—whenever you, and not some corporate cost-cutter, decide that will be—you will have a business with a solid asset base and revenue stream, and therefore a significant value to a potential acquirer. All you are ever asked to invest in your business—in this miracle—is sweat equity. Prospecting is that sweat equity. And so be it. An entrepreneur, it is said, is someone who works 13 hours a day for himself so he doesn’t have to work eight hours a day for someone else. You are just such an entrepreneur, building a business by prospecting. Is prospecting hard and demanding work? It surely is. Will you have to put very large percentages of your time and emotional energy into it? You surely will. Will prospecting subject you to long and disappointing stretches when it seems things are never going to work out for you? It surely may, and you’ll have to have an arsenal of mechanisms in place with which to beat back the darkness that starts gathering inside your head. (Providing you with some of these tools is an important part of this book’s mission.) But here is the transcendent truth which is seated at the heart of the miraculous opportunity that you and I have been given: you cannot fail. This is the advantage you have over every other entrepreneur who ever lived, or ever will. It is possible for the brilliant founder of a Silicon Valley start-up to put millions of dollars and years of effort into a new technology that ultimately doesn’t work, isn’t economic, or gets swamped by a larger rival’s breakthrough.

It’s possible for the owner of a store or a restaurant simply to run out of capital before his business reaches the scale he needs in order to turn profitable. Can’t happen to you. I say again: you cannot fail…as long as you keep prospecting. This is all the miracle asks of you. This is all you need to do in order to be not merely successful, but excellent. Cherish the miracle. Revere the gift you’ve been given: the opportunity to do well by doing good, to make a fortune in the stewardship of other people’s financial security…and to do so without any capital investment, nor the years of study that are required of a physician, a CPA or an attorney. Resolve to pay—and to go on paying, as long as it takes—the one price that the miracle requires of you: perfect faith in the inevitably favorable outcome of The Game of Numbers, and persistent, appropriate prospecting behavior in the quest for that outcome.
