# Chapter 4: Faith

MY DICTIONARY DEFINES “FAITH” AS A BELIEF THAT DOES NOT REST on logical proof or material evidence. I can’t prove to you that you will be successful in our profession if you never stop prospecting. I can certainly show you legions of people who have succeeded that way, and who will be glad to confirm to you that they triumphed only because of perseverance. But I freely concede that examples do not constitute proof in your particular case. I have perfect faith that the relentlessly prospecting advisor must and will succeed. Still, it doesn’t matter what I believe. It only matters what you believe. People fail in this business when they stop prospecting. They stop prospecting when they conclude that it doesn’t work, if only for them. They conclude prospecting doesn’t work only when they lose faith in its inevitable success. Please read the foregoing three sentences again, because you will find that they form one complete thought. To synthesize that thought in a slightly different way: failure in our profession can only come from a loss of faith.

As long as you have faith in the efficacy of prospecting—as long as you believe that he/she who never stops playing The Game of Numbers always wins—you won’t stop prospecting. It’s the same as if you discovered one slot machine in a casino somewhere that paid a million dollars once in every 50,000 times you put a quarter in it, and pulled the handle. (And the firm that’s trained you actually spots you the quarters!) If you believed that, you wouldn’t care how long it took you to pull the handle 50,000 times. You’d just never stop pulling that handle. You come into this business with perfect faith. Then you sit down, start joyously and energetically pulling the handle…and nothing happens. Worse: the machine starts yelling at you, hanging up on you, demeaning you and your profession. (“Oh, no, not another insurance salesman, not another cheesy stockbroker!”) Pull the handle a bunch more times; still nothing. Or worse, a few dimes…for all that effort. Pull it all day, then all day tomorrow and the next day. Nothing. Suddenly your arm starts to hurt, and you just need to go home early and rest it, or to take tomorrow off to do some personal errands. Finally you come back into the office, and find that you’re looking at the machine with dread. “Maybe I was misinformed about the odds. Maybe this is the wrong machine. Maybe I’m just not cut out for this.” Faith gone. Game over. Avoidance has got hold of you, like the shark in Jaws. You leave. The machine just sits there, waiting im-

passively for someone who won’t stop pulling the handle, so it can pay out the million dollars. Prospecting isn’t so much a behavior as it is a constant reaffirmation of faith. I came in today. I sat down. I pulled the handle 50 times in eight hours. Therefore I won. Did I get any prospects, any appointments? I didn’t notice, because—as you’ll see when we get to the “Behavior” section of this book—that’s not how I keep score. I did what I was supposed to do. I did everything one has to do to succeed in this business: I worked my prospecting program. I left my daily offering on the altar of the law of large numbers. I beat back Avoidance for another day. I kept the faith.
