# Chapter 5: The Myth of Motivation

ONE OF THE LIES AVOIDANCE WILL TELL YOU FROM TIME TO TIME is that you don’t have enough “motivation” to do what you know you should be doing. At such times, you will have recourse to the local drug dealer—a motivational speaker, and/or his book/CD. As if, for all the world, motivation were a substance, and ingesting more of it could give you the power you need and don’t have, rather like Popeye’s spinach. (I may have done a thing or two in my career that I’m not totally proud of, but at least I’ve never given a “motivational speech.” And believe me, that’s something to cling to as one grows older. I was walking into a speaking engagement one time, and an advisor who was coming in with me asked, “You gonna get us pumped up?” I said, “God forbid.” And meant it.) Almost 40 years ago, the sales psychologist Aaron Hemsley taught me that people like us, simply by virtue of our career choice, have demonstrated more than enough motivation for three lifetimes. Because we took a job with no salary. We said, “I don’t want a boss. I don’t want any externally imposed limit on my income. I’m perfectly content to live by my own energy and my own wits. I want to be as successful as I can as soon

as I can, and I’ll take my chances. I’ll do whatever it takes. I’ll get paid just what I earn, and I don’t want anybody ever to tell me I’m making too much money.” Normal people don’t do that. They sit down, add up all their expenses, and then get a job that pays a salary greater than those expenses. Then next year, when their expenses have gone up, they’ll have to plead for “a raise.” They have bosses. They have to do what they’re told. To people of our high-achieving personality, this sounds like a living death. Nothing and no one can “motivate” another human being. I can’t possibly want more for you, your spouse and your children than you do. I may be able to give you better ideas about how to get what you want for yourself and for them, but you have to want it. And you clearly do, by virtue of your courageous commitment to self-reliance, by seeking your true calling rather than just taking a job that pays the bills. “Not enough motivation” is just another of Avoidance’s cop-out rationalizations for not doing the fundamental work of our profession. And all such rationalizations are iterations of the same lie: you haven’t got what it takes. But you do. Remember who you are. Remember the brave choice you made, one which 99% of the population would be terrified even to contemplate. Don’t believe the lie.
