# Chapter 6: Gratitude

A FEW PAGES BACK, I DESCRIBED THE OPPORTUNITY WE’VE BEEN given to build a practice that can put us solidly in the top one percent of all Americans in terms of earnings and net worth, with no capital investment and no one to tell us what to do, in a business in which it is impossible to fail if we just keep prospecting. We got this opportunity at a uniquely golden moment in our country’s demography, as the biggest, wealthiest generation of human beings who ever lived marches quick-time into retirement, with no clear financial idea of how to prepare, or of what they’re supposed to do when they get there. Moreover, we got it in an era where information technology enables us to capture volumes of pertinent information in a few moments which might have taken an entire day to research when I came into the business. Finally, we got it at a time when our ability instantly to communicate electronically with great numbers of prospects and clients is at an all-time high, yet is still growing exponentially. Realizing all this, there has to come a moment when you are virtually struck speechless with an overwhelming sense of gratitude.

Hold that thought. Preserve it, protect it, and keep it where you can always get back to it, as if it were a well of exquisitely sweet water in the trackless wastes of a desert. Nothing can stand up to gratitude. There’s no negative emotion— not fear, not self-doubt, not sadness, and certainly not anger—that can survive exposure to the radiance of gratitude. It may be a little early in this book to start talking about technique—we are, after all, still in the realm of Belief, with Behavior to follow. But you’ll want fairly soon—and perhaps right now isn’t too soon—to start a Gratitude List, so that you can recite it to yourself at the beginning of every prospecting day. (Also at the end. And, if necessary, any number of times in between.) A Gratitude List is just what it sounds like: your own unique statement, in writing, of all the important things in your personal and professional life for which you’re deeply grateful, and which have prepared you to face, steadfastly and even joyfully, whatever you have to deal with today. Or in the next hour. Or just in the next prospecting approach you’re going to make. At this point in my life, mine is as long as your arm. And it’s got some pretty intense personal stuff on it, because I’m grateful even for my own most terrible mistakes—and for the occasional “disaster” that seemed to befall me. That’s because I’m living proof of Napoleon Hill’s dictum (in his classic book Think and Grow Rich, which I discovered 50 years ago) that every setback, every heartache

and every failure carries with it the seed of an equivalent or greater benefit. A heavily edited Greatest Hits edition of my Gratitude List would look something like this: I’m grateful that I was born in the United States, history’s beacon of human liberty and (not at all coincidentally) the richest country in the world. I’m grateful I was born when I was. Had I come into the world even two generations earlier, I’d already have been dead a half dozen times from diseases I’ve had (influenza, childhood pneumonia, epiglottitis) for which there were no treatments then. I’m grateful that I was born, and was able to raise my children, in what I still regard as the greatest city in the world. I’m grateful that I continue to have a home there, in one of its finest neighborhoods, Brooklyn Heights. I’m grateful that I live and work in the paradise of Long Island’s North Fork (where my older daughter met the love of her life, whose family has been there since 1650). I’m grateful that my parents were readers, and that I grew up in a household that cherished the written and spoken word. I’m even grateful that I was acculturated in my first, formative years by radio, not television. From radio, I learned to listen—the greatest of all skills in the profession of advice—and I learned what good speaking sounds like, and how powerful it can be. Those early lessons are still with me, every time I walk into a speaking engagement.

I’m endlessly grateful for my education, incomplete though it was, at Bishop Loughlin Memorial High School in Brooklyn (in its heyday as an all-boys, all-scholarship academy) and at Columbia University. I’m grateful, above all other things, that the best and bravest person I’ve ever known, the former Joan Carrick, married me, and stayed married to me. I’m grateful that I found this profession—for all the reasons enumerated above—and that I was taken on by E. F. Hutton & Company, which had the best and most practical training program among all its peers at the time, and was willing to take a chance on a 24-year-old with an incomplete college education, and with no commissioned sales experience. I’m grateful for my three wonderful children, and that I’ve been able to provide world-class educations for them, so that they might go out and become everything they were created capable of being. I’m grateful for my two grandchildren, who opened a whole new dimension in my understanding of, and capacity for, love. (I always knew I was going to be a goofy grandpa. But I never thought I’d be this goofy.) I’m inexpressibly grateful that two of my children are involved in my business: Karen, who edits my books and newsletter, and Mark, who manages the distribution of my books.

I’m grateful that I continue to be able to do work that helps thousands of advisors, and perhaps hundreds of thousands of their clients. And on, and on, and on. Scrooge, says Dickens, kept Christmas every day in his heart. What you and I have to think about—and practice as much as we need to—is keeping Thanksgiving every day in our hearts. Avoidance will probably never stop trying to whip Thanksgiving out of us. But nothing can stand up to gratitude.
