# Chapter 7: Prospecting Ends

SPEAKING OF REASONS FOR GRATITUDE, THE GOOD NEWS JUST keeps on coming. Lest you think that you will have to run the gauntlet of prospecting every business day until kingdom come, take heart. There is glorious light at the end of the tunnel, and it isn’t an oncoming freight train. Because, done right, prospecting withers away. (Done wrong, of course, it never ends: it’s a treadmill to oblivion. It’s Sisyphus and his pet rock. But look on the bright side.) Almost everyone in every business other than ours has to face the fact that, having done something right, he’ll immediately be called on to do something else right, and even more right. That’s what most people call a career. But if we prospect right, the need for it starts to tail off at some point, even as our practice continues to grow. That’s because we’ve consciously, actively trained our replacements. A good client—the kind you will be prospecting for now—has two duties. The first is simply to follow your advice, not because you can “prove” in any way that it is the wisest course—you can’t prove that the sun is going to come up tomorrow, nor that either you or your client will be here to see it if it does.

No: the first duty of a good client is to follow your advice for no other reason than that it is your advice. Not because he grasps the overwhelming intellectual truth and beauty of your plan, but because he believes and trusts you. (And what is the highestprobability way to get yourself trusted? Why, of course: it’s to be perfectly trustworthy, to tell the pure, unvarnished truth all the time, and let the chips fall where they may.) It’s the second—and equally important—duty of the good client which concerns us here. Simply stated: it is to introduce you to other good clients. (Not to “refer” you to them—referrals don’t work—but to introduce you to them, which is an infinitely richer and more effective human interaction.) Introductions to like-minded peers are thus part of the job description of a good client. And, in building relationships with good clients, you are training your prospecting replacements. Prospecting ends. It ends when (not if ) you reach your goals for your practice, and you have a battalion of people who respect you, rely on you and like you out in the community, prospecting for you. And what of people who are given every opportunity, and more than ample time, to introduce you to their peers, and who do not? Why, they are not good clients, as we have chosen to define “good.” And you’re probably not going to keep them. Indeed, why would you keep someone who doesn’t respect your work, or at least like you, enough to introduce you? Of course: you wouldn’t.

They don’t deserve you. And although it may be a little early in your career to drop this epiphany on you: be assured that you’ll never get anywhere near the top of this profession until you accept and actualize the great karmic truth that, in the long run, your clients are going to have to deserve you every bit as much as you will need to deserve them.
