# Chapter 8: Fear, Part One

THERE ARE TWO THINGS YOU NEED TO UNDERSTAND ABOUT FEAR. The first is that fear is the evidence that you really care about what you’re doing: that you want desperately to be great at it. And the second thing is that fear is the opposite of faith, and that one always drives out the other. Pressfield, in The War of Art, reports that Henry Fonda took a one-character play about Clarence Darrow on the road when he was 75. And every night before he went on stage, he threw up. I love that story, and can even relate to it. I’ve been speaking professionally for 30 years now, and I still get sort of numb with anxiety in the several minutes before I go on. It engenders something like an emotional paralysis. I must look like I’m going into shock. Of course, three minutes into my talk, I’m fine, because I’m doing the work I love, and that I came there to do. I’ve always known that I get fearful because I want to do the best possible job I can. I don’t want to fail my audience. I don’t want to miss the chance to give them everything I’ve got that day—because that day is all I’ve got, and all I may ever have.

We fear because we care, because the work is so important to us, and because we want so much to succeed. In that sense, fear is always a good sign. You are bursting with desire and hope. That’s what makes you who you are. It’s also what makes you susceptible to fear. That’s the package. That’s the deal you made. Respect your fear, and even honor it. Speak to it, if you need to: let it know that you’re aware of it, that you love what it says about you…and that you’re not going to give in to it today. Just today, because today is the only day you ever have to do any work, and therefore the only day you have to beat back fear in order to proceed with the work. You’re a warrior. No warrior goes into battle entirely unafraid, unless he’s insane, has a death wish, or both. Heroism in battle is first and foremost the acceptance of fear and the decision to act appropriately in spite of it—and even to use it as fuel. So let it be with prospecting.
