# Chapter 9: Fear, Part Two

THE SECOND OF TWO PARAMOUNT TRUTHS ABOUT FEAR IS THAT IT is the opposite of faith, and that one drives out the other. It is practically a physical law: the space in your mind that can hold any quantum of faith and/or fear is fixed, so that an increase in one can only be accomplished by an equal draining away of the other. One’s reserves of faith, and the practiced ability to call up those reserves, are therefore the ultimate—and indeed the only known—antidote to fear. It isn’t a fair fight, of course, because it’s kind of two against one. When fear shows up, ready to rumble, you can send not one champion up against it, but two: faith and gratitude. Either one would almost certainly do the job, but against both, fear has no chance whatever. I’ll concede, in the interest of full disclosure, that I have a particularly unfair advantage when it comes to marshaling faith against fear: I can pray. But even if I couldn’t, I have optimism—which is the only long-run realism—and the mathematical certainty that if I never stop prospecting, I must win The Game of Numbers. Fear is just another arrow in Avoidance’s quiver. You know you can’t fail if you don’t stop prospecting. Fear tells you that you can.

This isn’t rational, but then neither is fear. Indeed, for purposes of this discussion, the term “irrational fear” is a redundancy. Fear that you can persist in prospecting and still fail is irrational fear, by definition. But that’s an intellectual certainty, and fear is an emotion. Respect the power of that emotion. Above all, do not blame yourself, or think less of yourself, when you find yourself experiencing the emotion. Negative self-talk is always the language of Avoidance: a way of weakening yourself, and making yourself even more susceptible to fear. This may sound like a vicious cycle, but it’s actually a downward spiral. Fear, like all your feelings, is valid, for no other reason than that it is the feeling you’re feeling at the moment. It is perfectly OK to feel fear. It is never OK to give in to the fear: to do what the fear is telling you to do. On the field of battle, and in your office as you prospect, this is the essence of heroism. Where does fear come from? Why do we feel it? I don’t know. I don’t think anyone else does either. And I’m absolutely convinced that it doesn’t matter in the least. (If we knew these things—and we never will—would we not still feel the fear?) Pressfield thinks the original fear is that of success—the fear we have of what might happen to us if we ever fully became everything we’re capable of being. And maybe he’s right. I’ve known male advisors who got paralyzed when they realized they were earning more than their fathers ever had, and women advisors who froze up

when their earnings threatened to surpass those of their husbands. So I guess if you need a Unified Theory of Original Fear, you could certainly do far worse than fear of success. Emmet Fox, in his spiritual classic The Sermon on the Mount, says, “The underlying cause of all trouble is fear.” To me, that pretty much says it all. Being human, I’m going to feel fear. Nothing I can do about that. I can stay with the fear, which is a direct repudiation of faith, whatever the nature of that faith may be. Or—just for today, which is the only day we have to take care of—I can stop where I stand, renew my faith, read my Gratitude List, and repudiate fear by doing the next right thing…which is probably, in the context of this book, making just one more prospecting approach. Just one more. Choose faith. In yourself. In The Game of Numbers. In the beautiful future that awaits you and the people you love, if you do not stop prospecting.
