# Chapter 10: Today

YESTERDAY IS HISTORY. TOMORROW IS A MYSTERY. TODAY IS A GIFT; that’s why they call it “the present.” OK, it’s a somewhat tired old proverb. But remember: things get to be old and familiar proverbs by being true. You are going to be making long-term prospecting plans, and rightly so. You’re not going to be flitting from prospecting method to prospecting method every few months just because one or another —that you haven’t given nearly enough time—doesn’t seem to be “working.” (You know that any prospecting plan works if you steadfastly and relentlessly work it, and that the law of large numbers has to be given enough time to do its glorious work.) But you don’t have to—and in fact can’t—work a two-year program of prospecting estate attorneys, or giving a total of eight quarterly seminars, today. The only thing you can do today is the work you’ve set for yourself today. When you do that work today, you’ll weave another strand into the unbreakable steel cable of habitforce which will establish you in this profession. If you don’t do that work today, it will be that much easier not to do it tomorrow—and that much harder to re-start.

Successfully recovering alcoholics and drug addicts do not “swear off” the substance to which they are addicted. They know that the attraction the substance has for them, and the power of its hold on them, are far too strong for them to be able to say confidently that they’ll never ingest it again for the rest of their lives. Rather, they simply commit to not using that substance today. In exactly this way, we must not think about the need to prospect for years in order to get where we want to go: true as it may be, the pressure of it may be just too daunting. We need only do the prospecting behavior we have set for ourselves today, as if our careers depended on it. Because, of course, they do. “Keeping it in the day” may be the single healthiest thing we can do to stay on track. Indeed, if and when necessary, this can be reduced to keeping it in the hour. That is, the smaller the task, the easier it is to accomplish. Even people as driven and self-critical as we high-achievers are can appreciate the psychological validity— the release of pressure—that comes from just asking ourselves to do what we committed to do in the next small interval of time. Today surely is “the present.” But it isn’t a gift we can receive from anybody else. We have to give it to ourselves.
