# Chapter 11: Authenticity

THERE’S A VERY HUMAN TENDENCY, WHEN YOU’RE JUST STARTING out, to want to be whatever the prospect wants you to be—to voluntarily and even eagerly assume the role he wants you to play. Indeed, you may at some point fall victim to “sales training” literature which suggests that everyone you’ll encounter falls into one of four (or seven, or however many) personality types. This sludge goes on to suggest how you can adapt the persona you present to the requisite type, down to your clothes, shoes and (heaven help us) type of pen. This is a perfect formula by which to find yourself sitting there one fine day with no core beliefs, no core competencies, and no idea who you are. At exactly that moment, some economic/market apocalypse du jour will strike. You’ll be fielding a tsunami of incoming calls, trying desperately to remember which mask you’re supposed to be to wearing for whichever hysteric is on the other end of the phone at any given moment. You have to be who you are. Granted, if you’re just beginning a career in financial advice (especially if you’re young, and without a large body of life experience), you may object to this dictum, on the seemingly compelling basis that—at least professionally—you have no earthly idea who you are. That may even strike you as a genuinely honest and open admission about yourself.

Well, hear this from a friend: you can’t go out there with that attitude. The shark of Avoidance will eat you for breakfast. If you don’t know who you are, a life of high-volume prospecting is one hell of a way to try to find out. We need to get you suited up like a medieval knight, with two layers of defense against the blows of “no.” The chain mail under your armor will be your identity: your genuine sense of who you are, or are determined to become, as a person and as a professional. And the armor itself will be your professional belief system: your sense of what top quality financial advice is, and how you are uniquely suited to render it, even—and perhaps particularly—if you’re just starting out. The balance of this section of the book, on Belief, will be devoted to crafting these two systems. Or rather, to demonstrating how you can and will forge your own unique chain mail and armor, perfectly fitted to your true self, offering you both maximum defense against the blows of high-volume prospecting, and maximum freedom of movement in the joyful pursuit of the practice you will strive to deserve. Then, and only then, we’ll get to Behavior. For the moment, be assured that the way to the top of this profession is not by trying to become something you are not (e.g. an “expert”), much less by trying to hide something you are (e.g. a newbie, and/or someone who has little affluence in his own personal background). It’s by recognizing, organizing, nurturing, and finally manifesting your most authentic self.
