# Chapter 12: A Sense of Who You Are

THE PEOPLE WHO ARE GOING TO READ THIS BOOK WILL FALL INTO three basic categories: (1) those coming pretty much straight from school, or with some brief business experience in between; (2) those coming to financial advisory as a second career, with some significant body of both life and work experience; and (3) those in mid-career in our profession, seeking to re-start their prospecting engines in order to expand their practices. No matter. You have an identity, or at the very least an idea of the person you wish to become. And you will manifest that person if you just focus on bringing him/her out, instead of obsessing about all the things you don’t yet know, or haven’t yet accomplished. Regardless of the infinity of differences from one lastingly successful financial advisor to another, the thousands of them I’ve personally known paid the utmost attention to developing and maintaining— and quietly but clearly projecting—three essential qualities. Morality. The truly excellent advisor is not merely compliant with regulations—which is fundamental, but for which you can’t expect any credit. (It’s kind of like showering and shaving in the morning.) Nor is he/she merely ethical. No, the real winners—and the happiest people—I know are deeply and consciously moral.

There’s an awful lot of noise in our industry about who is and who is not a fiduciary, by some or another government/regulatory standard. As if, for all the world, morality could be legislated or commanded. It cannot, and the whole discussion is essentially moot to those at the top of the profession—who got there by being true fiduciaries in thought, word and deed. As the makers of Hebrew National kosher hot dogs advertised years ago: they answer to a higher authority. Morality, as we practice it, goes very far beyond simply putting the client’s interest above our own. It extends to not sanctioning (and accepting compensation for) actions a client might want to take which we believe would harm him. Yes, it’s his money, and he has every right to do what he wants with it—but not on our watch. That’s the difference between compliance and morality. What goes around does indeed come around, even if it’s on a very long elliptical orbit. The ethical compromise you make today to gain an order, or even an account, will come back to haunt you someday, some way. And the business you “lose” today by refusing ethical compromise will likewise be returned to you, with compound interest, from some other source—so long as you continue prospecting to claim it. Show me the business you won’t stoop to do, and I’ll not only tell you who you are, I’ll tell you how quickly you’re going to get to the top of this profession.

Self-respect. On the day I got my New York Stock Exchange registration, I wish someone had sat me down and told me three things. First, that I could be in the business, constantly learning and becoming more valuable to potential clients, for the rest of my life—and that therefore success was inevitable as long as I kept prospecting. Second, that by virtue of going through E. F. Hutton’s quite rigorous training program, and passing the exam, I already knew more about how the economy and the capital markets worked than did at least three out of four prospects I would ever encounter. And third, that I need not feel the least daunted or insecure about the numberless technical things I didn’t know, because there was an army of specialists on staff at Hutton, and an even larger army of product providers behind them, eager to take over the heavy lifting with my prospects. All I ever needed to do was get the conversation started. I submit that all three of those things are true for you, even if you just got licensed this morning. I maintain further that you are deserving of professional respect on all three counts—but that you cannot expect people to respect you more than you respect yourself. This has nothing to do with puffing up your ego. If anything, just the opposite: when you calmly acknowledge that you’re not the expert regarding the question your prospect has just asked, then offer to summon a genuinely world-class expert to answer it, you demonstrate a palpable (and very attractive) humility.

“In quiet confidence shall be your strength,” says Isaiah (30:15). Believe in what you’re doing. Believe that there is no question you can be asked to which you can’t readily obtain a clear, correct, compelling answer. And you’ll get all the respect you deserve—from the prospects who, in turn, deserve you. Likeability. This is the quality that, as he runs the gauntlet of “no” in the early going, the newly minted advisor is most liable to let life beat out of him—if he ever consciously focused on it to begin with. (Many do not, in their mad rush to don the Halloween costume of “serious expert.”) But likeability is by far the most effective—and the easiest—identity trait you can develop. I remember, just a few years ago, reading an excellent interview with the acclaimed and prolific filmmaker Steven Soderbergh. He was quite candid to the effect that, in the earliest years of his career, he managed to pick up work here and there simply because people liked him. Learn from him. Even as you begin a program of prospecting people who don’t know you, you’re going to be out and about in a world of friends, acquaintances and people you do business with. You’ll want them to know that you’re a financial advisor, and to feel that you would be someone who’d be easy to talk to—someone they could trust to give them an unbiased opinion, rather than trying to “sell them something.”

How often do you visit your dry cleaner? How much money do you leave there when you do? (Chances are it mounts up: dry cleaners were the late Dr. Tom Stanley’s prototypical “millionaires next door.”) How difficult would it be for you to say, while handing him your card, “I’ve just begun work as a financial planner, with a really great firm. I’d like you to feel that I’m always available to you, when you need an objective second opinion from someone you know you can trust”? Indeed, how hard would it be to say that to every single person you know? Is your first instinct to smile at people, as opposed to electing not to smile? Do you say “please” and “thank you”? Do you send thank you notes at the drop of a hat, even when the recipient hasn’t done much? Do you ask people how they’re doing, and mean it? Do you look people in the eye, and give them a moment to register that you’re doing so? Do you say “excuse me” even if you weren’t really in someone’s way? If the person behind you in the checkout line at the supermarket only has a couple of items, do you invite them to go ahead of you? One can go on and on like this, and we’ll have much more to say about it when we get to “Behaviors.” For the moment, I’m just sort of inviting you to take your own temperature on the subject. Being sincerely open and friendly—or even just being actively polite—invariably oxygenates your attitudes and increases your energy.

Equally important, it makes you more accessible to people; it increases the chance that they might one day feel, “I’ll bet I could ask her about this, and she’d tell me the truth.” It’s precisely the realization that indeed they can ask you something related to your profession that you’re beaming at people with every friendly look, word or gesture. Of course, in the fullness of time, you are going to approach them, and actively offer to counsel them. Indeed, you’re ultimately going to approach everyone you know. Because if—as we agreed right at the beginning of this book—everyone must ultimately fail financially without a smart, empathetic, trustworthy advisor—who could you not approach? Who can you be absolutely sure does not need your guidance…unless you ask the question?
