# Chapter 13: A Positive Value Proposition, From Day One

DAUNTED AS HE MAY BE BY THE MULTIPLICITY OF THINGS HE doesn’t yet know, the newly minted advisor is in peril of underestimating the enormous value to prospective clients of the fundamental truths he already does know. Don’t make that mistake. Arm yourself, instead, with the tremendous realization that from the very first day you’re licensed, your advice, supported by that of your firm, is already worth more— and on occasion far more—than you will ever be asking people to pay for it. It is impossible to overstate the importance of this epiphany, for it means that you are in a state of grace. You were born, professionally, with a positive value proposition. Look: 90% of financial planning is common sense. A family has to be adequately insured before it can invest. It has to eliminate credit card debt. It has to spend less than it earns. It can’t save for long-term goals like college costs and retirement: it has to invest for them, because the real return of savings—after inflation and taxes—is always negative. If wealth is its goal, the family must invest patiently in equities rather than bonds for the long term, because

mainstream equities’ real return, net of inflation, has for at least the past century been more than twice that of comparable bonds. In short, the family has to have a holistic plan. But it doesn’t; that’s why you and I were put here. A family’s financial prospects begin to brighten significantly in the first 20 minutes they start talking to us—and all we’re doing at that point is asking good questions. Must we offer those 20 minutes to many households and families before even one says, “Yes, we need to have that conversation”? Of course, and so be it. That’s The Game of Numbers. We can’t evade it—it’s a law of nature, like gravity or tides—so we accept and even embrace it. For many are called, but few are chosen. Do you know how to calculate the amount of life insurance the heads of a family need to sustain the household if one of them passes? Of course you do—and they don’t. Your offer to sit with them and help them figure it out—without any cost or obligation—is therefore priceless. Do you know how to calculate the capital sum they’ll need to accumulate by the time they retire, so that they can do so in dignity and independence—and still leave important legacies to the people they love and must leave behind in the world? Again: you do… and they most assuredly don’t. And again, your offer to sit with them and work up their number is almost incalculably valuable. Yet it is your gift to them: it costs them nothing and obligates them

to nothing. (Watch and see how quickly you become known for doing this.) The realization that on your first day, you are potentially more valuable to a family than you’ll ever be able to charge them—the pure essence of a positive value proposition—is a source of immense power. It can’t help but fuel your professional self-confidence and even your personal self-esteem. Linger over this stupendous idea. Meditate on it for a while, like the medieval squire who had to keep the vigil of arms in the chapel throughout the long night before he was to be knighted. Recite it to yourself in the first person every morning before you go into battle. For if your professional belief system is to be your armor, your positive value proposition will be your helmet, sword and shield.
