# Chapter 15: Belief System 1.0

-  You became a financial advisor in order to help people find lasting financial security, something they could not do for themselves. This is a noble occupation, and is every bit as much a profession as law, accounting or even medicine. Like any and every other professional who puts the interests of his clients first, you deserve to be respected. You surely have to deserve clients, but they must also deserve you. -  Even though you may just be starting out, don’t be intimidated by—and don’t allow a prospect to challenge you on—your relative inexperience. The expertise you can bring to bear on any financial planning situation from your firm’s and its vendors’ technical experts is overwhelming and decisive. You will not always know the answer, but you will always be able to get the answer, assuming it exists. This is a very valuable skill, in and of itself. -  Of the millions upon millions of households, families and businesses who will never succeed financially without high-quality advice, you probably only have to find 250, with average assets of half a million dollars, to have a wealth management practice whose gross revenues are well in excess of a million dollars a year. In time, those early recruits will find you 250 more, so that you’ll net that amount. (This completely ignores your

insurance revenues.) It is impossible to fail to achieve this objective if you do not stop prospecting for these kinds of relationships. -  The essence of all successful long-term advisor-advisee relationships is trust. Anything and everything else is only a means to the end of achieving implicit mutual trust. -  A prospect may find an advisor who charges less than you do. He may also find an advisor (even with your army of supporting “experts”) who is somehow more knowledgeable in a certain technical area than your “experts” are. He will almost certainly not find an advisor who is both smarter and cheaper overall than you are. Be comforted by this. -  Work to bring your prospective clients to the informed belief that they will never meet an advisor who genuinely cares about them and their family’s financial success more than you do. -  The stewardship of the families working toward financial security with your aid is the focus of your entire professional life. You can only do well to the extent they do. State this commitment clearly, and in so many words. -  Life is entirely too short to work with anyone you don’t like, or at least respect, and who does not like—or at least respect—you.

-  For the entirety of your career, your price will be an issue only to the extent that your value is in question. We’ve already noted that great financial advice is always worth to the client much more than it costs. But it will not suffice for this to continue to be true, in any advisor-advisee relationship. The client must perceive that it is true. And, this being a business of human nature, perception is reality. Yes, you must—and you surely will—create and maintain a first class financial plan. But you must also make sure your heart and soul are invested in the client experience, as he perceives it. -  A financial advisor is first and foremost a thrift coach, inasmuch as all financial planning involves the diversion of income away from current consumption to things like insurance premiums and investments. But insurance may appear to be a pure cost today, in that it protects against something that may not happen for years or decades (death), or—in the case of disability and long-term care—that may never happen at all. Investment, too, is often driven by a need—retirement income—that may be quite distant in time. But the last dollar of income a 45-year-old spends in a year is something like fifteen dollars his 75-year-old self will need, and not have. The financial advisor—counseling deferral of gratification in a society that lives on the toxic promise of “Buy now! No payments ’til next March!”—is, as she sits in a 45-yearold couple’s living room tonight, an advocate for those 75-yearolds, and even for their heirs. She is in possession of the supreme

secret: show me what percentage of your income you’re putting away for the future, and I’ll tell you what your future will be. Thus, a financial advisor is in the permanent position of trying to persuade people to do with their money not what they want to do—for example, taking the family skiing in Aspen over Presidents Week—but what they need to do—for example, maxing out their annual 401(k) contribution. Your prospects’ resistance to this counsel is nothing more or less than human. It is how you know you’re giving the right advice. Don’t take it personally. Soldier on. Those two 75-year-olds are depending on you! -  You will never find a prospect who is planning to fail. You will find tens of thousands, throughout your career, who are failing to plan. No insurance, annuity or investment product makes any sense whatsoever outside the context of an overall plan. At the very least, the plan has to be some form of statement of goals and investment policy. Ideally, it will be a complete financial and estate plan. The critical work of the advisor is the formulation of goals, and of a plan for achieving those goals regardless of whether the prospect lives another 50 days or 50 years. A client who tries to hire you solely for portfolio management—indeed, for anything other than a coherent long-term plan—has almost certainly come to you for the wrong reasons, and will one day leave you for the wrong reasons. In declining to allow you to

do a plan for him, he is already planning his escape. Thank him for his interest, and encourage him to find an advisor who does that sort of thing. No portfolio without a plan. -  We insure against what can go wrong in order to earn the luxury of investing for what can go right. On the back of a postcard, this is the essence of any financial planning worthy of the name. The most beautifully diversified long-term investment portfolio, being accumulated to fund three decades of a worry-free retirement, may be gone in a year or two if the investor dies or is disabled. Or it may one day be sucked down into the black hole of long-term care costs, if a spouse falls victim to Alzheimer’s or some other wasting illness. The advisor has a moral obligation not to take on the management of a client’s investments until he is reasonably satisfied that the client is adequately insured. The best as well as the most practical way to call this question is by approaching every prospect’s case through the prism of a plan rather than that of a portfolio. -  Relatively few families or households, regardless of their commitment to thrift and to planning, will be able to afford all the protection and all the investments they ideally would wish to acquire. Life, health, disability and long-term care insurance premiums plus the funding of robust education and retirement investment accounts will simply not be within most prospects’ financial capabilities.

Economics is the science of choice, and in that very real sense the advisor will evolve into the family’s chief financial officer, helping them make the difficult choices. The ability to do this—more properly, the ability to get people to let you do this with and for them—is much more about empathy than it is about expertise. -  You will never be able consistently to predict nor to control what the economy is going to do, nor what the markets are going to do. Moreover, the more dramatic whatever the economy and the markets are about to do—think COVID-19—the less you will see it coming. There is no shame in this. No one else can do it either. Warren Buffett said, “I have never met a man who could forecast the market.” Pay strict attention, here, because this is the greatest equity investor who ever lived, telling you not only that no one (including himself ) can consistently predict markets, but that the inability to predict markets is no bar—indeed, is perfectly irrelevant—to successful investing. -  In addition to not being able to anticipate markets or the economy, you will never be able scientifically or mathematically to select investments that will outperform in the future. Again, no shame in this: neither can anyone else. There is no statistical evidence for the persistence of performance.

-  If markets and the economy, as well as the future relative performance of similar investments, are utterly unpredictable, what variable dominates long-term, real-life investment outcomes? Why, of course: the behavior of the investor himself. The dominant determinant of lifetime investment outcomes is not investment performance, but investor behavior. This is simply the most liberating, most empowering realization the newly knighted advisor could ever have. Because it means that she can invariably produce superior real-life outcomes for her clients simply by modifying their behavior— keeping them from throwing too much money at a fad near its top, and preventing them from panicking out of a beautifully diversified portfolio near a market bottom. This is a literally priceless skill, and worth multiples of what the client will ever be asked to pay for it. -  A potentially excellent advisor will therefore never be working from an economic or market outlook. An outlook can only skew a financial planner’s best efforts, transmogrifying his work from a plan into a bet. And anyway, what earthly relevance could the direction of the market’s next 15% or 20% move—even if one could be reasonably sure of it, which no one can—have to the management of a portfolio whose goal is the funding of a lifestyle-sustaining income through three decades of retirement? It is an idea too ludicrous to contemplate.

-  Solvent baby boomers—again, that great demographic pig in the python born between 1946 and 1964—will have average two-person retirements of 30 years. (The average retirement age in this country is 62; the joint life expectancy of a non-smoking 62-year-old couple is age 92…and rising.) The critical financial issue in a three-decade retirement is the maintenance of purchasing power, simply defined as a dollar income that rises through time at the same or a greater rate than the retirees’ dollar cost of living goes up. Fixed income investments—of the kind benighted human nature views as “safe”—haven’t historically been very efficient at doing this. Equities, for all the historic volatility in their prices, have. For close to the last hundred years, the Consumer Price Index has risen nearly three percent per year, while the dividend of the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index—the cash income it produces—has gone up at an annual rate approaching twice that. This is critical: you don’t take your account statements to the supermarket, you take your dividend income. -  Thus, the ratio of rising-income (equity) investments to fixed-income (bond) investments in a retirement income portfolio—and the broad diversification of the equities, regardless of market conditions—will probably end up determining whether the folks outlive their money, or their money outlives the folks. The higher the percentage of fixed income that people take into 30 years of a rising-cost life, the greater the chance they’ll eventually run out of money. (And in such cases, you

won’t need to be concerned about the estate plan, because there isn’t going to be an estate.) Compared to these fundamental issues, questions of selection and timing within the portfolio pale into insignificance. And you can’t predict or control those variables anyway. -  When you have made a plan which, given the family’s financial capabilities, does what they decided they needed done in the optimal way, there can be no valid “objections.” There can and will be valid questions—indeed, bring ’em on—but not objections. Right, logic and economy will be on your side. -  Once more, with feeling: it isn’t your job to know the answers to all the questions. It’s your job to know (a) that there is always an authoritative answer, and (b) from whom to get it. That’s not just a different skill set, it’s a different mindset. -  During your first five years, you will learn something—even if it’s only one thing—of lasting importance to the rest of your career every time you have the opportunity to present a plan; whether the plan “closes” or not is immaterial. That one thing may be a tax law or a regulation, a planning tool or technique, an intriguing economic or market fact/statistic, or just a particular quirk of human nature. You will already have need of a place to record your Gratitude List. Start a complementary “What I Learned” journal, and write in it after every significant planning appointment. Let that journal

record not just your triumphs but your apparent failures, and it will tell you how you are progressing. Keeping it, honestly and daily, is perhaps the kindest as well as the most therapeutic thing you can do for yourself. Note, however, that if and when you stop writing in that journal, the shark wins. Avoidance wins. Avoidance’s two key weapons are silence and shame. If it can take away your voice, and isolate you inside your own head, it can kill you. That’s its goal. But if you can just keep writing to your best self—this is what I was able to do today, this is what I was feeling, these are the things I’m proud of, these are the things I’m not so proud of, but am going to work on improving just slightly tomorrow—you win. And you will go on winning. ••• Inasmuch as this whole book is a love letter to the frightened, insecure 24-year-old I was when I got registered, the foregoing is the belief system I wish I’d been handed at the beginning of my career, as much for the mistakes it might have prevented me from making as for the things it would have prompted me to do right. For instance, when asked what I thought of the market, I’d have had the wit to answer that I didn’t think about the market at all, because I never knew what it was going to do in the short run, but I always knew what it was going to do in the long run. Thus, I didn’t need to think about it, in terms of trying to predict its next zig or zag, which no one can consistently do anyway. I might have added

that what I did think about—almost all the time—was what my clients were going to be living on 10 and 15 years into retirement. Suffice it to say that I hadn’t the confidence spontaneously to generate these ripostes, because I didn’t have the belief system (planning, not prognostication; the stocks/bonds mix and equity diversification, not selection and timing) from which those answers spring. (Instead, I answered the question as it was asked, heaven forgive me, and spouted whatever was in my firm’s daily technical market letter. It didn’t help.) Now you do have a belief system. Or at least you have mine, which can serve as the first draft of yours. But in the end, you will have to take ownership of your own beliefs. They will have to be yours, because you will have to be the authentic you. The immortal Louis Armstrong, certainly the most influential American musician of the first half of the twentieth century, was once asked by another trumpeter if his technique could be taught. Satch just shook his head, and said, “You blows who you is.” Let’s end on that note. Belief dictates behavior. The critical experiences of high-volume prospecting are all inside your head, orchestrated there not by what is happening but by what you believe to be happening. You blows who you is.
