# Chapter 17: You Are What You Do

IN THE MASTER CLASS THAT HE GAVE NEAR HIS HOME IN PUERTO Rico in the last years of his life, the great cellist Pablo Casals began by admonishing the students—all budding world-class cellists in their own right—“First, we must please forget the notes.” He was telling them that their technical competence could only take them so far, and that they would need to transcend it if they were to become true artists. And in the all-day intensive program he used to give, upwards of 40 years ago, the behavioral psychologist Aaron Hemsley began by saying, “All chronic production issues are behavior issues.” Let that be the text for our extended meditation on behavior, as it relates to prospecting. After belief, behavior is all that matters. You will not learn your way to the top of this profession. Nor will you think your way to the top. You will behave your way to where you want to go. Or you will not get there. The behavior in question is prospecting. And we had better start by defining our terms. What is prospecting? And what is—despite its being an activity, a very palpable behavior—not prospecting?

In order to give you a glimpse of where you stand on this issue, let’s begin with a little quiz. I’m going to describe some activities you might undertake during a prospecting day. And I’ll ask you to count the number of genuine prospecting approaches you made during this hypothetical day. On the way to work this morning, you dropped off your dry cleaning, spoke with the owner, and handed him an invitation to your upcoming seminar on retirement income investing. You arrived in the office to find a message containing a referred lead. You called the lead, and got a busy signal. You tried three other times during the morning, and got the same busy signal. You’ve asked your assistant to check the number. You found a list of 10 top estate attorneys in a local magazine. You emailed them a nice letter, briefly describing your services and indicating that you would call them for lunch next week, to see if and how your practices might be helpful to each other. You then called 10 owners of plumbing and heating contracting firms. Only two were in; one said he was very happy with his current advisor, and one asked if you could send him something. You then placed a crackerjack new video about yourself and your services on your recently revamped website, and paid Google for preferred placement. Now, when somebody looks for an advisor in your area, your nifty website will pop up.

You then hand-addressed and sent out a hundred very attractive mailers to a carefully selected, upscale zip code in the best area of town. And you finished up the day by going to a board meeting of a local charity, where your fellow board members include three of the most respected professionals in your town, in law, accounting and medicine, respectively. Here’s the quiz question. As a reasonable person would define a genuine prospecting behavior, how many prospecting behaviors did you perform today? The correct answer is: 15. The personal invitation, eye to eye with the dry cleaner himself, was a legitimate prospecting approach. The four attempts to call the referred lead were all separate, legitimate attempts to speak directly with him; they all count. The 10 calls you made to the plumbing contractors were all legitimate attempts to speak directly with them; they all count. The fact that only two of these 10 calls went through to the people you were calling is of less than no importance. How those two people responded is, if possible, of even less importance. You see, those were outcomes—over which you had no control—and that’s not the way we keep score. We count legitimate attempts to start a business conversation. That is: we keep score by inputs, not outcomes. Thus: 15.

Your emails to the estate attorneys were pre-approaches, and therefore don’t count. When and if you actually follow up, and attempt to speak directly to them—regardless of whether you get to talk to them or not—those calls (or drop-ins) will be legitimate attempts to connect with them, and will count at that point. Your work on your website was marketing, not prospecting. Mailers aren’t even marketing; they’re just Avoidance behaviors. They’re non-prospecting. (Unless, of course, you’re going to follow up every swinging one with a phone call; then and only then they’ll count.) And your charity work may perchance end up in a business conversation with somebody someday. But you weren’t directly attempting to start such a conversation today; hence, you weren’t prospecting. You will already have inferred this definition from the foregoing anecdotes, but let’s make sure that for the rest of this book—and for the rest of your career, and indeed for all eternity—you and I are unambiguously on the same page, here. A prospecting approach is a genuine attempt to start a conversation with another human being about your ultimately becoming his financial advisor. Whatever activity differs from this definition—to the extent of the difference—is not prospecting.
