# Chapter 18: Risking 'No'

18 Risking “No” THERE IS CERTAINLY NOTHING WRONG WITH HAVING A WELLdesigned, easily accessible website. By all means, do. Just don’t mistake it for prospecting. (Don’t mistake any marketing for prospecting; we will get to an expanded discussion of this—of how marketing and related activities can become the trickster Avoidance’s most seductive masks—in just a little while.) Being visible and respected in the community—through involvement in charities, museums and other non-profit enterprises for the general betterment—is certainly salutary, too. It’s good for your soul, and good for your reputation. And, as we’ve just observed, it may very well lead to productive business relationships at some point. But it isn’t prospecting. (By the way, if you undertook the non-profit stuff primarily for business, it won’t work. You’ll never throw yourself into the enterprise with the selfless joy it needs and deserves. Thus, it will become an energy drain rather than the life-enhancer it’s supposed to be. Moreover, people will somehow sense that you’re really there trolling for business, and be turned off. Please see this observation as the necessary digression it is. The main point is simply that volunteering isn’t prospecting.)

Mailers, email blasts and other impersonal, one-way communications—I repeat for emphasis—not only aren’t prospecting, but may even be a manifestation of Avoidance: a lot of busy work that goes nowhere, but whose attraction is that it saves you from the cruel necessity of genuine prospecting. On its most fundamental level, a behavior may be tested to see if it’s a real prospecting approach by this simple standard: might another human being have been personally engaged by it, and might he have said “no”? If you make a phone call and get voicemail, as will happen so often these days, there was actually a chance that you might not, in fact, have gotten voicemail—that the person you were trying to reach might have come on the line. And said “no.” It therefore counts as a genuine prospecting approach. Voicemail is an outcome, as are “no,” “yes,” and the administrative assistant saying, “He does not take calls from salesmen,” in a tone which suggests that “salesman” is a species of the genus “pond scum.” Outcomes are utterly irrelevant. (They are also, as we have seen, a suicidal way to keep score, because you cannot control them.) But by initiating the call, you did the work of our profession. You risked hearing “no.” And since risking “no” is the only way under heaven ever to hear “yes,” you have done all you can sanely be asked to do…except to do it again, now.

I invite you now, therefore, to accept—nay, to embrace—the two physical laws of prospecting. (1) “Yes” is only potentially available at the risk of “no.” And therefore (2) any activity/behavior to which another human being might respond by directly saying “no” to you is a valid prospecting behavior. (Forgive me if this is belaboring the obvious, but the converse of the second rule is equally true: any activity/behavior that can’t result in another human being saying “No” directly to you is not a valid prospecting behavior.) I suppose I must pause here, and acknowledge that, purely for purposes of illustrating the general laws, I have for the last few pages often used telephone calls as examples. There may be some danger, therefore, that a reader will already have leapt to the conclusion that “He’s saying that cold calling still works!” I am saying absolutely nothing of the kind. I have no opinion on methods, because method simply cannot matter. Any prospecting method “works” if you joyously and enthusiastically work it, in gradually but steadily increasing volume, for your first (or your next) few years in the business. No prospecting method works if you don’t. Once again, and for nowhere near the last time: it does not matter how you prospect—you can never gain a permanent advantage over the law of large numbers, any more than you can over the law of gravity—it matters only that you prospect, and that you do not stop. My object here is only to reinforce the definition of a genuine prospecting approach. It is an activity which creates the possibility that

another human being will respond directly to it—and to you, right here, right now—“no.” Because risking “no”—and having that risk eventuate, time after time—is the only way ever to hear “yes.”
