# Chapter 19: The Golden 'Almost'

19 The Golden “Almost” IF YOU, A TOTAL STRANGER, GO AROUND METAPHORICALLY JUMPing out of the bushes at people, trying to start a conversation with them that is clearly aimed at your taking over their financial lives, I think you can reasonably assume that almost everyone you do that to will, at least initially, say no. This is no more or less than human nature. And human nature is the business we’re in. Most people don’t even want to think about their financial lives— about how they’re going to educate their children, how they’re going to retire comfortably, how their family would survive if they died. If they don’t want to think about it, they sure don’t want to talk about it. And even if they’re at all open to talking about it, they’re still going to be very reluctant to talk about it with a total stranger whom they suspect—not entirely wrongly—of wanting to sell them something. Welcome to the personal financial advisory business. Welcome to prospecting. Now, if you will, go back to the first paragraph at the beginning of this section. Read it again, out loud if your circumstances permit. In any event, read it again. As you do so, look for the one word in that paragraph which assures you that a high level of prospecting

activity, carried out consistently over a significant period of time, must and will inevitably yield you an income in the top one percent of all Americans, as you build your financial well-being by securing that of other people. Because as dark a warning as that paragraph (together with the one that follows it) surely is, you’ll find shining through one word in it the radiant light that will illuminate your entire career, causing you to become a prosperous and even happy person. That transcendent word is, of course, almost. Almost everyone you prospect may say no to you. But not quite everyone. Some people—regardless of how small a percentage they are of all the people you prospect—will say: yes, I suppose I need a second opinion on my investments. Yes, I suppose I need to talk to someone about what would happen to my business if I die. Yes, I suppose I need to get my retirement savings plan back on track. Yes, I suppose I have to start thinking about estate taxation. No promises, but…yes, I’d be willing to talk with you about this. They will be your prospects. Some of them will become your clients. Some of your clients—indeed, most of them, if you do this really right—will introduce you to their peers, who in turn will become clients, and introduce you to still others. And there will

be your practice. Built—you will find, as you look back on a distinguished career—out of an almost but not quite universal incidence of “no.” Success is inevitable. You just have to get enough people to say “no” to you.
