# Chapter 20: 'No' Is Not 'Rejection'

20 “No” Is Not “Rejection” GUY COMES INTO A DOCTOR’S OFFICE, WHEEZING HEAVILY, OBVIously having some discomfort just moving around. Weighs in around 300 pounds; blood pressure 170/110. Says he’s having trouble sleeping. Doctor asks some basic lifestyle questions. Guy says he’s a smoker, eats mostly cheeseburgers, carbs and canned/processed foods, drinks a fair amount of beer, gets zero exercise. Doctor takes some blood, but has a pretty good idea that, when the bloodwork comes back, it’s going to show bad cholesterol numbers. Tells the patient he wants to do an electrocardiogram and a stress test, to give him a healthier meal plan, and to start him walking on the treadmill. Guy says, “Never mind all that. My problem is I can’t sleep. I just want a prescription for a really effective sleeping pill.” Doctor says he really couldn’t prescribe such a thing, given the patient’s other symptoms. Guy puts on his hat with the earflaps and walks out. Question: Does the doctor feel “rejected”? Answer: Of course not. He gave the guy his best medical opinion—indeed, talked about the things that may save his life, or at least prevent it ending as prematurely as it’s going to otherwise—and the “patient” chose to ignore him. I expect that the sum total of the doctor’s

response to this is probably him turning to his nurse and saying, “Next patient, please.” The difference between the financial advisor’s situation and the doctor’s is just that the doc doesn’t prospect—patients come to him, as they will one day to you—whereas, for the next few years, we have to contact the potential patients first. But our “patients” are in no better shape. We’re prospecting business owners, because we know (from a well-regarded survey by the Principal Financial Group) that something like three in four have no succession plan—no buy/sell agreement, no nothing. Financially, they’re the equivalent of the 300 pound “patient,” just without that stupid hat. Or we’re prospecting people a few years either side of retirement, offering a second opinion on their retirement income plan (which, after years of their not saving enough, and then going through the COVID-19 debacle, may well be in sorry shape). And they’re saying “no”? They either won’t talk to us at all, or won’t accept our plan when we present it to them? Do you feel even the least bit “rejected” by this? If you do, the 300 pound guy with the hat is no longer the craziest person in the room. If you can get any more emotionally involved in “no”—indeed, in any quantity of “no”—than “next patient, please,” it is you who have the problem. You dreamed it up; you breathed life into it; you sewed it a costume; you cast it as a character in your internal

psychodrama; you own it. You’re keeping it alive. Nobody else— particularly the people saying “no,” who know perfectly well that they should be listening to you, and can’t admit it even to themselves—has any idea what the hell you’re telling yourself. “No” isn’t “rejection.” It’s nothing more than someone’s refusal to submit to a fiscal (rather than a physical) examination, for fear that you will find out what’s really wrong with him, and prescribe the medicine he needs and doesn’t want to take, because he doesn’t want to get better in the first place. (In fact, what he really wants is to go on denying that he may be sick.) This, to say the very least, cannot be your problem unless you invest it with an emotional power over you which it can never intrinsically have. There is, no matter how often you hear it, only one psychologically healthy response to “no.” “Next patient, please.”
