# Chapter 21: 'No' Doesn't Hurt

21 “No” Doesn’t Hurt THERE ARE THREE CRITICAL THINGS YOU HAVE TO KNOW ABOUT “NO.” You’ve just seen two of them. The first one was that—human nature being what it is, and the law of large numbers being what it is—you are going to have to seek out and even embrace a large volume of “no” for some period of years in order to hear enough “yes” to realize your dream of excellence in this profession. And the second was that “no” is not, by any rational test, “rejection,” in the sense of being a personal repudiation. Just before we get to the third one, let’s examine the undeniable conclusion which a reasonable person would draw from the two foregoing statements. It is that “no” is never a failure, and is in fact always a success. Thomas Edison—all but deaf and with a total of about four months of formal schooling as a child—invented the incandescent electric light bulb. The possibility of incandescence was widely acknowledged at the time, and a lot of people with a lot of formal education and perfect hearing were working on it. The issue was finding a filament that would glow brightly for an extended period of time without burning up.

All the while loudly proclaiming that he was just on the verge of achieving incandescence (trying, I’ve always believed, to bluff the other experimenters out of the game), Edison spent two years testing (literally) 10,000 filament materials, none of which worked. But he just kept at it, because even as uneducated as he was, he was intuitively possessed of science’s ultimate truth: that whatever isn’t impossible is inevitable. Edison perfected incandescence, and the rest is history. It’s also beside the point I wish to make, which is simply this: Edison vehemently rejected the idea that any, much less all, of the 10,000 experiments were “failures.” He insisted that they were all successes, in that each one proved another material that would not work, and thereby brought him a step closer to what would. There is, inside this true parable, a successful career calling out to us. Its message is twofold. First, if success is not impossible, it must therefore be inevitable, if only we keep experimenting/prospecting. Second, every “no” is not a failure but a success, in that it makes possible—and indeed brings us one step closer to—“yes.” The third critical thing you need to know about “no,” beyond any shadow of doubt, is: “no” doesn’t hurt. Unless we decide, consciously or much more probably unconsciously, to let it. If a large volume of “no” is essential to every “yes,” and if “no” is not rejection in any personal sense, then “no” cannot possibly hurt. Indeed, it has no chemical or psychological properties whatever,

unless and until we become so evolved that we can actually begin to process “no” as a kind of fuel. Why, then, does anyone ever stop prospecting short of his goals, much less leave the business?
