# Chapter 22: The Way We Experience 'No'

22 The Way We Experience “No” LET’S REVIEW EVERYTHING WE’VE LEARNED SO FAR ABOUT BEHAVIOR. We know that success is inevitable if we just keep prospecting. We know the converse is also true: that the only way to fail in this business—or to take a place in the gray twilight of permanent underachievement—is to stop prospecting. We know that the huge preponderance of people we prospect— and sometimes it will feel like almost everybody—says “no” when he is first prospected. We know this has nothing to do with us; it’s usually a symptom that they’re not ready to deal with the financial realities of their lives, at least not yet. We know that we can build a hugely successful career on the few who agree to talk seriously with us. We know, therefore, that “no” is not “rejection,” nor does it hurt. We know that “no” is not a reason to stop prospecting; indeed it’s the only reliable building block of success. And yet every so often, we will look up, and see—walking out of the office for the last time—someone smarter, better connected and an easier conversationalist than we are. Someone who had everything going for him. Someone who was, if anyone is, a “natural” for this business. Why?

There’s only ever one reason. It was the way he processed the experience of “no.” “No” may not objectively hurt. “No” may objectively have no weight at all. These are intellectual truths, and they are intellectually inarguable. The issue arises from the fact that we are not intellectual beings. We are emotional beings, and our most fundamental emotional wiring—the way we are programmed to process our experience—is in our unconscious. Were we essentially intellectual, when the fiftieth tomahawk of “no” crashed down on our skull of a Monday morning, and we wanted to stop prospecting, we would simply say with Star Trek’s Mr. Spock, “That isn’t logical, Captain.” And make the fifty-first prospecting approach. Then again, Mr. Spock isn’t human, and we are. No one in this business was ever defeated—or ever will be defeated—by “no.” They get taken out by the way they experience “no”—an emotional response which is internally generated. And it’s more real than real, because it’s what they anxiously feel.
