# Chapter 23: Why We Think 'No' Hurts

23 Why We Think “No” Hurts WHEN A HARRIED BUSINESS OWNER AT WHOM YOU HAVE JUST jumped out of the bushes says “no” simply to be rid of you—without giving a moment’s thought to what you said—he does not actually hit you over the head with a tomahawk. He doesn’t even know he’s the fiftieth person to say “no” to your sensible and even impassioned offer of help today. He has no feeling about you at all. And well within five minutes he’ll have forgotten that he even spoke to you. We may therefore spend a little time—a very little, if you don’t mind—asking why you may feel like a person running the gauntlet who just got whacked with the fiftieth tomahawk of the day. Aaron Hemsley, 40 years ago, theorized that it has to do with the fact that people of our personality type come into the business looking not so much for money as for validation. We’re seeking the approval we crave and somehow didn’t get in earlier life; this psychic opportunity is so attractive that we give up a salary in order to get it. And when someone says, “Yes, I’ll place $5 million in your separately managed accounts,” or “Yes, I’ll buy your $5 million variable universal life insurance policy,” that’s the payback we came looking for, in that somehow it’s a validation that we’re a good person.

The problem with that emotional paradigm is that, if we invest other people with the power to approve of us, we also give them the power to disapprove of us. And since we are going to hear “no” some multiple of the times we hear “yes,” the cumulative weight of that disapproval may ultimately crush us. To our personality type, “no” really is “rejection”—a genuinely personal repudiation—and it does hurt. To the point where no chance to hear “yes” is worth the risk of another painful stab of “no.” It is at that point that prospecting effectively stops. Like Pressfield’s theory that all fears ultimately track back to the fear of success, Hemsley’s theory of the terminally other-directed advisor works just fine for me, and you’re certainly welcome to it. Or to any other theory, for that matter. You see, to me, all “why” is navel-gazing. You can never be absolutely sure “why,” even if you have a cogent and coherent theory of it. And if you were sure why “no” hurts, would it suddenly stop hurting? If you think not—as I surely do—then I don’t see where “why” gets us. Rather than trying to plumb the unfathomable depths of “why,” I much prefer to have you focus on the fact that the “pain” of “rejection,” fiercely powerful though our experience of it may be, is not objectively real, but a product of our emotions. Because if we have internally generated the perceived pain, then we can also desensitize ourselves to it. We can unlearn it. We can behave our way out of this instinctive but counterproductive response.

All chronic production issues are behavior issues. “No” isn’t my problem; I am the problem, and therefore I am the solution. “No” does not hurt, no matter how hard the shark of Avoidance tries to convince me that it does.
