# Chapter 24: Why Prospecting Programs Fail

FOR THE SAME REASON DIETS FAIL, AND EXERCISE PROGRAMS FAIL. People stop working them. Why? Because, in our emotional accounting system, the long-term benefits—which are obvious and indeed inevitable—stop outweighing the daily difficulty of doing the work. In that sense, prospecting is neither art nor science. It’s a discipline. Like a permanent change in the quality of your nutrition, and/or a long-term commitment to a physical exercise program, a multiyear prospecting program can’t fail to yield significant returns. The sweat equity of prospecting—systematically invested over a period of years—must result in a practice which will propel you toward the top one percent of all Americans in terms of income. The question “How do I prospect” is like “Which diet plan do I follow?” and “Which exercise program is best?” It’s a manifestation of Avoidance, in that it isn’t asking the question it really means. It means, “What magic incantation of words, what prospecting letter, what ‘elevator speech’ will yield me the largest volume of ‘yes’ and the smallest incidence of ‘no’? How can I outsmart the law of large numbers?”

It’s the same as the question about choosing the “best” diet, which really means “How can I lose the most weight with the smallest change in my eating habits for the shortest possible time?” The question about exercise really means essentially the same thing: most dramatic results with the least effort over the smallest interval of time. Put aside for a moment issues of the “pain” of “rejection.” This is far from the only way the shark of Avoidance surfaces. There is also the very basic human issue of really wanting what you say you want, and really being willing to do what you have to do to get it. Again, this has nothing to do with the question of “motivation.” It has to do with being honest with yourself. Superior careers are only available at the cost of superior effort. You get out of the business (and life, for that matter) what you put into it. There are no shortcuts; there is no magical prospecting formula. The search for such illusions is Avoidance’s way of setting you up. Prospecting programs don’t fail. People fail.
