# Chapter 25: How Do You Prospect?

ONCE YOU’VE ACCEPTED THE BASIC DEFINITION OF A LEGITIMATE prospecting approach, what method or methods of attempting directly to start a conversation with another human being will you find readily available to you? I can think of six basic methods. Your training program may suggest other forms of approach, and so may the successful prospectors in your office and your firm. You yourself may think of others, and if indeed a particular one pops into your head, pay attention. It may be your unconscious, telling you the method that’s right for you. (It may, on the other hand, be Avoidance, inviting you to tap dance into a minefield. Only time will tell. Stay tuned.) 1. Introductory telephonic prospecting. (This is what a newly minted advisor of my acquaintance, cheerfully making 200 cold calls a day, preferred to call them, because he didn’t like the term “cold call.” Did I mention that it helps immeasurably, in a long-term prospecting program, to maintain a sense of humor about it?) 2. A n email note/letter, indicating that you’ll subsequently call, followed by said call.

3. A snail-mail note/letter, indicating that you’ll subsequently call, followed by said call. 4. Drop-ins, also known as “knocking on doors.” 5. S pontaneous attempts to strike up a business conversation at social or civic functions, or in any venue (e.g. seatmates in the first class cabin of a commercial airliner) where people are thrown together. 6. Seminars. These six methods are equally available to the new advisor who’s just starting out, as well as to the experienced advisor who is—if this is the correct phrase, and I’ve just this minute decided that it is—re-starting out. To the latter, let me mention the Seventh Samurai prospecting stalwart: client appreciation events where the “cost” of admission is that your current clients are quite seriously asked to bring a peer whom you do not know, or at least with whom you don’t currently do business. (If your current clients do not already know that introductions are part of their job description—because you didn’t tell them—this is when you tell them. Got it?) Now, I will invite you to take a self-administered, self-graded, one-question pop quiz. No one will know the outcome but you. However, it is at least possible that you are just about to experience a pivotal moment in your reading of this book, and in your readiness to accept it.

Question: Did you, even for the briefest moment as you were reading the six methods listed above, feel the impulse to ask, “Which one works best?” If you did—and even I might have to admit that you wouldn’t be human if you didn’t—we just came to the moment in Jaws when the shark first appears. And a stunned Roy Scheider backs into the cabin of the Orca and delivers (to Robert Shaw) one of the greatest lines in all of American cinema: “You’re gonna need a bigger boat.” Because if that question broke the surface of your consciousness even for a second, you just stared directly into the killer eyes of Avoidance. And it does not want to frighten you into taking your boat back to shore. It does not want to make a deal with you about which areas of the water you’re allowed to be in. It wants to destroy you. And one of the ways it can do that is to get you asking the wrong questions, all of which—like the one above, or “What should the pre-approach letter say?”—bottom-line to: “What’s the best way to hear the maximum amount of ‘yes’ with the minimum incidence of ‘no’?” When Avoidance can do that—when it can get you even thinking that you’re not fully prepared to hear however much “no” it takes— it’s got you. There is no boat big enough. You’re all done. But that isn’t going to happen, because you and I aren’t going to let it happen.
