# Chapter 26: Method Doesn't Matter

26 Method Doesn’t Matter NONE OF THESE SIX BASIC PROSPECTING METHODS IS OBJECTIVELY better than the others. The glorious law of large numbers—the golden “almost”—operating as it does, any prospecting method will work if you work it, and won’t work if you don’t. As long as you’re absolutely sure of that—not intellectually, because behavior isn’t driven by the intellect, but emotionally and even spiritually, deep in your warrior’s soul—the shark can’t get you. Nothing in the foregoing paragraph should be taken as a statement that one or more of the six prospecting methods might not be better for you. I said, and now say again, that none is objectively better, in the sense that it will reliably yield more prospects, clients or income than any of the others. They are all just fairly standard ways of implementing a high volume of genuine attempts to start conversations. You may very well recoil from cold calling, for instance. Instead, you might decide that writing a well-worded, thought-provoking, pithy note and then calling is as different from cold calling as night and day—that you feel great about doing one and hate the whole idea of doing the other.

I think that’s just terrific. (The substantive difference is at least 90% in your head, but never mind that: so is everything else.) If one method makes you comfortable, and the other claws at your soul, then to blazes with objectivity: the one you like can work brilliantly for you, assuming you keep working it, and the other can’t possibly work at all, because you’ll never be able to sustain it. Know thyself. You have to be who you are. Or how about this: you want to send a note inviting people to your crackerjack retirement income seminar, which you do every 60 days, then call them and invite them to the seminar all over again, in the meantime asking if they’d like a second opinion on their portfolio even before the seminar. (This is either two or three of the six basic approaches; I’ve lost count, and thinking about it makes my eyes glaze over.) I love it. And I’m here to tell you that, well before you give that constantly improving seminar for the thirtieth time—five years hence—your practice will not only be full, but you’ll have a waiting list. They’ll have to take numbers, like in Zabar’s on Sunday morning. What’s that? What does the seminar invitation say? For that matter, what does the seminar itself say? Once again, and not for the last time: it can’t matter. Do a pretty good retirement income seminar with warmth and conviction every two months for five years— spending the intervening two months prospecting like crazy for the next batch of attendees, and then following up each attendee to get

an appointment—and you’ll end up at the top of the profession. Do the most electrifying retirement income seminar ever seen on the planet—a religious experience, the six attendees weeping and pleading to be saved—three times, and then give up, and you’ll be gone. In practice: just tell all the mutual fund and annuity wholesalers who call on your office that you’re auditioning retirement seminar content and invitations. Then just stand back. These guys will fall all over themselves trying to get you to do their seminar. And they may even help you cover the cost. When you’ve seen everything that’s available, you’ll know which seminar feels right for you. Or you’ll be able to sit down and write your own. Content can never be the issue. It does not matter how you prospect. It does not matter whom you prospect. It does not matter what you say, much less what you write. It matters only that you prospect—a little more each month, as you grow stronger and stronger—and above all that you do not stop. Confucius said that, actually. No, not the thing about prospecting; the other thing. Indeed, it’s the epigraph you saw at the beginning of this book: “It does not matter how slowly you go, so long as you do not stop.”
