# Chapter 27: Overcoming Method Anxiety

ALL ANXIETY ABOUT METHOD—HOW TO PROSPECT, WHOM TO prospect, what to say—is the handiwork of Avoidance, in that it involves the futile quest for a way to short-circuit the law of large numbers. You just have to know this, and to act on that (emotional, not intellectual) knowledge. I sincerely believe that all real success at prospecting begins at the point where you overcome method anxiety, find the method (or methods) with which you feel most comfortable, and begin working it (or them) with joyous abandon, in perfect faith that success cannot be denied you if you don’t stop. The ultimate answer to the question “How should I prospect?” is basically another question: “Who are you?” This is why I made such an issue, in the section of this book on Belief, about having a fairly coherent sense of the kind of advisor you want to be, and about having at least the broad outlines of a belief system. You will prospect most effectively, and with the least possible stress, based solidly on who you are, and what you believe about helping people achieve financial security. That is, you’ll prospect most effectively with the truth, as you are given the light to see the truth.

Of course, human nature being what it is, you can get many more prospects much faster by prospecting with an untruth: for example, that you have a method of timing the market by point-andfigure charting (whatever that is), or that you can offer debt investments with very high yields and very little risk. Or that your variable universal life policy will somehow pay its own premium within a couple of years. People are very powerfully attracted to concepts that are too good to be true. But you know you can’t do that. I’m not moralizing, here; I’m simply stating what should be fairly obvious: that they may not be terribly exciting, and you may have to show them to an awful lot of people, but the great truths of financial planning are your best long-term prospecting tools. That doesn’t mean you can’t make them interesting.
