# Chapter 28: A Pre-Approach Letter for These Times

AS I WRITE IN 2021, THE GLOBAL ECONOMY AND THE MARKETS ARE recovering from their fastest, deepest collapse in living memory, brought on by COVID-19. But as sudden and savage as the market decline was, so was its recovery. Now, by the time you read this, all the issues surrounding the virus may seem quaint; we may even be on to a whole new apocalypse du jour. Sufficient unto the day are the troubles thereof, and there are always troubles. There are always more than enough incipient crises, real and imagined, to call forth from 10 million throats the four-word death song of the American investor: “This time is different.” No matter. I’m simply about to illustrate a pre-approach letter that might be, just at this moment, both timely and potentially comforting. I’m certainly not trying to defeat the law of large numbers, here. I’m trying—if anything can—marginally to increase the chances that a thoughtful, concerned person might be more inclined to take my follow-up call having read this note than if she had not.

What We Offer: A Cup of Coffee and a Second Opinion Dear Ms. Entrepreneur: When the markets turn as volatile and confusing as they have over this past block of time, even the most patient investors may come to question the wisdom of the investment plan they’ve been following. At (name of your firm), we’ve seen a lot of difficult markets come and go. And we can certainly empathize with people who find the current environment troublesome and disturbing. We’d like to help, if we can, and to that end, here’s what we offer: A cup of coffee, and a second opinion By appointment, you’re welcome to come in and sit with us for a while. We’ll ask you briefly to outline your financial goals—what your investment portfolio is intended to do for you. Then we’ll review the portfolio for and with you. If we think your investments continue to be well-suited to your long-term goals—despite all the market turmoil—we’ll gladly tell you so, and send you on your way. If, on the other hand, we think some of your investments no longer fit with your goals, we’ll explain why, in plain English. And, if you like, we’ll recommend some alternatives. Either way, the coffee is on us. I’ll call you shortly to determine how you might like to proceed. Thanks for your consideration. Sincerely,
