# Chapter 29: If It Feels Good, Do It

I THINK YOU’LL AGREE THAT THAT’S A PRETTY NICE LETTER. IT’S deliberately low-key and conversational: comfortable and comforting. It doesn’t make any wild promises—“We can outperform your current advisor!” And it’s gutsy, because it says that, for a free opinion, the folks have to come to you—which, if they’ll do it, hugely shifts the prospecting dynamic in your favor. (If they won’t, but you still want to see them after having spoken to them, you have my permission to fold, and go to them.) As far as the medium is concerned, snail-mail would be my vote—on nice note-sized (rather than business-letter-sized) stationery, addressed by hand. If it feels right to you—in the narrow sense of making the follow -up phone call psychologically easier for you to make—do it. If the letter feels good but out of date—that is, not sufficiently responsive to what’s bugging people now, whenever “now” is—go ahead and change it. Or write a new one in the same tone. All we’re really doing here is working on your head, because when you’re happy with the way you’re prospecting, you’re that much more likely to persevere. Moreover, you may decide that no pre-approach letter is going to change anything materially, in terms of the number of people

you get through to, and how they react to you. You’ll therefore conclude that you’re just going to use the time it takes to prepare and send out the letters to make that many more introductory telephonic communications. More power to you. If it feels good, do it. For that matter, why not just email blast this note to the whole blue-eyed world, without the “I’ll call you…” line? You can certainly do that too—but just don’t kid yourself that you’re prospecting, because you’re not. You’re marketing. One thing with the other got nothing to do.
