# Chapter 30: Once More with Feeling: Marketing Isn't Prospecting

30 Once More with Feeling: Marketing Isn’t Prospecting PROSPECTING, YOU’LL REMEMBER, IS A SPECIFIC ATTEMPT TO START a conversation directly with another human being. Whatever fails that test—including an email blast, however cleverly and attractively designed and worded—isn’t prospecting. Marketing, done right, may marginally supplement your prospecting effort—it can be another iron in the fire—but it can’t ever be prospecting. And where it’s done wrong—where it’s allowed to substitute for prospecting, rather than complementing it—it’s nothing but Avoidance writ large. My quarrel—in fact, one quarrel of several—with almost all the books and programs I’ve seen for financial advisors is that they completely miss this critical distinction. They offer reams of marketing ideas—on branding, niche marketing, websites, social media, networking, advertising, doing radio shows or writing columns for the local newspaper, community involvement, CD/DVD business cards, “elevator speeches,” and every imaginable variety of ancillary activity—but they don’t try to start a conversation, and therefore they don’t get you face to face with anybody.

You can market ’til you’re blue in the face, but if you’re not asking people for an appointment—if you’re waiting for people to contact you—you’re just treading water, and waiting on the shark. Marketing not in the service of prospecting is just busywork—as is all other busywork. And when I see an advisor who is nowhere near far enough along in his career diving headlong into studying for the CFP, or getting real active in his local FPA or NAIFA chapter, or—the great grandmother of all Avoidance behaviors—writing a book, I know the shark has got him. And deep down, I’m convinced that he knows it, too; it’s just that he can’t admit it to himself. If he had any instinct for self-preservation left, he wouldn’t be treading water in the shark’s happy hunting ground.
