# Chapter 31: Whom Do You Prospect?

IN DR. TOM STANLEY’S CLASSIC BOOK THE MILLIONAIRE MIND, HE SAYS that two thirds of America’s millionaires are either business owners (32%), corporate executives (16%), attorneys (10%), or physicians (9%). He says further that most millionaires find their financial advisor through a referral from their CPA or attorney. That’s whom you prospect, if you’re trying to reach millionaires as an end in itself. This is neither a good strategy nor a bad one. It’s just one of a numberless variety of prospecting trade-offs. The good news is: wealthy people have the most money, and therefore the most complex financial planning needs, which an advisor can make a great career out of solving. The good ones aren’t particularly price-sensitive, know they don’t have the time or the expertise to manage their own financial affairs, and are willing to follow advice from an advisor they trust. The more of them you can acquire, the fewer clients you need. The bad news is they’re surrounded by legal and accounting advisors, highly resistant to being prospected by strangers, and way too often think they’re smart, when in many cases they are quite startlingly not. Oh, yes, and every other financial advisor in the western hemisphere is prospecting the living daylights out of them, and they don’t know whom to trust, so they often end up saying no to everybody, and hiding behind their attorney or CPA.

Do these last two paragraphs constitute an argument for prospecting so-called high net worth individuals (when did we stop calling them rich people?), or for not prospecting them? I can only hope that, this far into the book, you realize that they are neither. They are merely a statement of the inevitable trade-offs inherent in every prospecting decision. The larger truth remains the same: Any target audience or niche will yield you up the practice you want if you never stop prospecting it—if you do great work, and show that work to enough people, all the while learning steadily more and more about the needs of your target audience. You may very honorably decide that you don’t want to bang your head against the high-net-worth wall this early in your career. One of the more successful newsletter subscribers I have says: Our practice focuses on helping regular people who have worked a long career make sure they don’t run out of income in retirement. We specifically do not target traditional high net worth individuals. We believe we can do well by doing good in this regard because our clients have typically never been well advised, there are way more of them, they appreciate the help, and are far less difficult to acquire and work with than our average doctor client. We start with basic yellow pad planning, then get a little more detailed in projecting [their retirement expenses and

income]. We don’t charge for planning services before they retire. In fact they have no obligation to work with us. We have no hard sell. While not everybody chooses to work with us, those who do magically seem to be the ones who are an appropriate fit—with fairly high precision. Here’s an advisor who’s made his essential prospecting/marketing/ audience/method decisions, and they suit him perfectly. He is very happy, and his business has an exceptionally bright future. But I, for one, could literally never manage a practice like his, because he’s got a staff of a dozen people (including part-timers working around their kids’ school hours). I’d prospect every doctor, lawyer, accountant and engineer in Christendom before I’d try to manage a staff that large, because I hate managing, and am simply terrible at it. (I acknowledge that this is a redundancy.) Does this make him wrong, and me right? No, of course not. It’s just another one of the aforementioned trade-offs. All it does is make him who he is, and me who I am. You have to be who you are. This is why I say that the ultimate answer to the question of whom to prospect isn’t an answer at all, but another question: who are you? Decide that, and all your long-term prospecting questions are answered in the optimal way for you. Are we just about done, here? Because this whole issue, like all “howto” matters, puts me to sleep. “How to” can never be the threshold question. The threshold question—and this book’s entire reason for being—is “How do you not stop?”
