# Chapter 32: Two Words About Buying a Practice: Think Thrice

THERE IS NO OBVIOUS PLACE IN THIS ALREADY DISCURSIVE BOOK TO cover the subject of acquiring an existing practice, so I suppose this is as good as any. One of the allegedly salutary developments in the financial advice industry over the past decade has been the broadening, deepening and increasing efficiency of the secondary market in advisory practices. I say “allegedly” because, although this trend has certainly been a boon to exiting advisors, I’m far from convinced that it’s working out anywhere nearly as well for the buyers. And I think that’s usually the buyers’ fault. I believe they’re kidding themselves. Because they’re unconsciously willing to pay just about any price to spare themselves the perceived pain and difficulty of prospecting, they convince themselves that the old advisor’s clients will cleave to them, almost irrespective of how radically different their styles are, not to mention their personalities. So, to cite an extreme but not at all imaginary instance, an advisor who really wants to be a long-term planner/asset allocator— using index funds and ETFs, and/or low-turnover actively managed funds—will buy, with his eyes wide shut, the practice of a

market-timing stock jockey. And then wonder why the practice quickly empties out. Financial advisory is an exquisitely personal business. Clients gravitate to an advisor, and remain with her, on two separate issues: personality and philosophy. If a buyer is to have any hope of succeeding in maintaining and growing an acquired book, he’d better be pretty sure that he and the seller are very compatible on both grounds. Otherwise he’s buying a pig in a poke. Moreover—the hard out-of-pocket costs aside—the buyer had better be absolutely convinced that he’s going to come out ahead in the long run working someone else’s book, as opposed to investing that same time, money and energy building his own practice in his own style, with people who chose him (and vice versa) instead of people who in essence defaulted to him. There is such a thing as the opportunity cost of buying someone else’s book. And if one isn’t pretty certain that buying will produce a better outcome than building, then one is liable—indeed very likely—to end up paying for a bad book twice, once out of pocket and once in lost opportunities. I remain convinced that, more often than not, buying a book is essentially an act of prospecting Avoidance. And that the departing advisor isn’t the seller at all. It’s the shark.
