# Chapter 33: Goals, Plans, Numbers and Other Ephemera

I CAN’T TELL YOU WHAT YOUR GOALS SHOULD BE, NOR WHAT LEVEL of activity is necessary for their achievement. You’re an adult; your practice is going to be your work of art, as unique as you are. The answer to all such questions is the same, and it is yet another question: who are you? Followed by two more questions: what do you want, and what is your plan for getting what you want? If you’re just starting out, you have your training regimen, branch/ agency management, and/or the opportunity to be mentored, formally or informally, by the winners around you—people whom you admire, and whose practices you would want to replicate over time. (And remember always: those successful advisors were not born on the planet Krypton, and do not have a big red “S” on their bodysuit that you can’t see. If they did this, so can you. This may sound like a platitude, but it is in fact one of the organizing principles of our universe.) They will help you map out a reasonable set of dollarand time-specific goals, and a prospecting program suitable thereto. If you are re-starting out, you surely know more than enough to zero-base your business, re-write your goals and plans, and formulate your own specific, detailed program of prospecting activity which will get you to your specific goals in the specific time allotted. The only real question is: will you?

All I can tell you with reasonable certainty has to do with the act of prospecting itself. And it is simply that if you are just starting out, you will need to be prospecting no less than: 80% of your time in years one and two 70% in year three 60% in year four 50% in year five If you are re-starting out, and your goal involves anything like doubling your business in the next five years, you will have to prospect—and do absolutely nothing other than prospecting, even if you just sit there—two hours every single business day at the same time. These are not guidelines. They are not suggestions. They are rules. You modify them—much less ignore them—at your extreme peril. Of course, you may (and probably will) have so much success in those next five years—obeying these rules—that you become “too busy to prospect.” At that point, you will stop obeying them. And at that point, any hope you ever had of getting to your long-term goals will vanish, though you will surely not admit this to yourself. And there you’ll be, treading water again in the middle of Shark Bay. With a nosebleed.
