# Chapter 35: Avoidance Poisons the Rest of Your Life

No, of course not, which is why even the term “comfort zone” is the mother of all misnomers. I actually met an advisor once who had produced gross revenues of $400,000 for 10 years running. How, you ask, is that possible? Surely his clients added to their accounts. Surely there was some appreciation in the value of their investments. Surely he got a referral now and again, in spite of himself. Didn’t matter. The unconscious architecture of his “comfort zone” dungeon forbade him to earn more than the roughly $200,000 he netted, year in and year out, before taxes. Comfort zone? By the time I encountered him, this guy was in agony. To the advisor just starting out, I say: there is a “comfort zone” waiting somewhere out there for you. You will not see yourself entering it, nor even sense when you’re in it, other than one telltale way: you will get too successful, “too busy to prospect.” As soon as you hear yourself thinking this even once, prune your existing book very hard (you’ll have almost certainly taken on too many small clients), shovel all administrative work off your desk (even if you have to hire someone)—and re-double your prospecting regimen with a vengeance. Treat this as the career-threatening emergency it is. Get the hell off that plateau as fast as you possibly can. The shark almost got you. And to the mid-career advisor, re-starting out, I say: you know exactly what I’m talking about. Why else would you be reading this book?

35 Avoidance Poisons the Rest of Your Life AMONG OTHER LESSONS, THE FOREGOING MEDITATION ON “COMfort zones” (also euphemistically called “plateaus”) teaches us that Avoidance can’t be compartmentalized. It doesn’t just affect your business. It doesn’t just affect you. It seeps into, and poisons, just about everything else in your life. As we just saw, Avoidance affects where you live. It limits what you can do for the people you love, in a way that causes you to feel that you are failing them by not living up to your own potential—a feeling that is entirely accurate. It constrains your ability to fund your best instincts in terms of charity. Even if you can fight Avoidance to a financial draw by remaining on some desolate production plateau, you’ll be in an emotional downward spiral, because of the accumulating effect of denying yourself and your family the life you claim to want for them, year after year. Avoidance is both corrosive and progressive in its psychological effects. When you’re not doing what you know you should be doing— prospecting—you end up not being able fully to enjoy whatever else you are doing. Do you like to be out on the golf course for a couple or three hours? You won’t enjoy it; you’ll be thinking that
