# Chapter 36: What Are We Prospecting for?

you should be prospecting. Love to watch NCAA hoops? You won’t be able to relax and concentrate on the game; you’ll be remembering how you didn’t prospect today. Of all the rationalizations, excuses, and outright lies Avoidance whispers to us, its most outrageous and malignant falsehood is that prospecting hurts worse than not prospecting. The truth is not merely different; it’s the exact opposite. Not prospecting hurts much worse. Let me, if I must, listen to “no” for two solid hours this afternoon, so that—with a conscience not merely clear but radiant—I can go home and fully experience the happiness of watching Duke blow out North Carolina…in keeping with heaven’s plan for the world. Otherwise I can’t enjoy it.

36 What Are We Prospecting for? WE’RE PROSPECTING FOR LIFELONG RELATIONSHIPS. RELATIONSHIPS can only be formed, and thereafter can only be deepened and strengthened, when we are looking into another person’s eyes, and he or she into ours. We are therefore prospecting for appointments. Please stop right here, and read the previous paragraph—which is a syllogism—three more times before going on. Read it out loud if circumstances permit. We are prospecting for appointments. What we probably want to do, then, is to practice narrowing the focus of our approach to something which a reasonable person might be willing to discuss with us face-to-face without overcommitting himself. So, for instance, we may decide that we’re not going to jump out of the bushes at someone and ask him if we can come in and review his entire financial, investment and estate plan—even though this is precisely where we want the relationship eventually to end up. Human nature being what it is, no matter how badly he actually needs such a comprehensive review, he’s extremely unlikely to go for it cold.
