# Chapter 37: The Double-Tap Question

Ideally, then, we want to offer him an entry level planning oriented service (never a product or a transaction) that is potentially very useful to him, doesn’t take but one sitting to complete, and won’t cost him anything. Let me offer some examples. You are sitting next to a reasonably affluent-looking chap in the firstclass cabin of an airplane. (You have resolved never to fly coach, because it is inconsistent with your vision of the person you are striving to become—and because you’re not going to find that many millionaires on a Southwest flight for which the average passenger is paying $49.) A conversation is struck up. At some point, it leads to “what do you do/what do you do.” You deliver your first-class-cabin speech. (This is weirdly but almost universally referred to in our industry as an “elevator speech.” I for one have never been called on to deliver it in an elevator, but have quite often had occasion to give it in a first-class cabin. Therefore—and since this is, after all, my book—it will be referred to as one’s first-class-cabin speech.) For example: I’m a retirement income planner. I work to make sure that my clients always have enough income to maintain their dignity and independence in retirement. Then, after a decent interval, you deliver The Double-Tap Question.

37 The Double-Tap Question YES, I KNOW, THIS EXAMPLE IS A LITTLE BLURRED, IN THAT YOU ARE not asking for an appointment; the guy is pretty much trapped in the seat next to you. Isolate on that variable, and you miss the point. The point is how you start conversations, regardless of the medium. It’s just that, a while back, I listed (among other prospecting media) situations where you’re thrown together with people, for instance in the firstclass cabin of a plane. I didn’t expand upon this method at that time. I’m expanding upon it now. OK? The Double-Tap Question is one way of starting a planning-oriented conversation from scratch in a very gentle, potentially intriguing, narrowly focused and non-threatening way. The Double-Tap Question takes its name from the fact that it’s actually a sequence of two separate questions, which I call the Set-Up Question and the Hammer Question. The Set-Up Question is a very direct yes/no question, asked in such a way that it is almost impossible for a reasonable person to truthfully answer it with a “yes.” He almost has to answer with some variation on the theme of “no.” This means, as you’re about to see, that he must, however reluctantly, be prompted to voice some discontent. You’re always probing for discontent.
