# Chapter 38: Words and Music

Thus, the Set-Up Question. You, to your seatmate: “As long as we’re on the subject, let me ask you: do you know exactly how much money it is going to take for you to be able to retire comfortably, and to stay comfortably retired?” Him: “Well, when you put it that way, I guess the answer is no: I don’t have an exact number worked out in my mind.” Now, you drop the Hammer Question. You: “Would you like me to sit with you and help you figure it out, understanding that there’ll be no cost to you in my doing this, nor any obligation?” Him: “How long would it take?” You: “We can probably get close to the round number in 15 minutes.” Him: “And I wouldn’t be having to buy anything, or pay you anything?” You: “Not at all. It’s the way I get to know people, and they often find it very helpful.” Him: “Don’t see how I can say no to that.”

38 Words and Music IN ADDITION TO LOOKING AT THE WORDS WE USED IN THIS EXAMPLE, listen to the music. Or if that’s too much of a stretch, try to hear, at the very least, the emotional tone of the words. We didn’t say, “Would you like me to do a retirement income analysis for you?”—even though technically that’s what we’re offering. But friends don’t talk technically to each other, and what we’re trying to become, here, is a friend. A friend says things such as, “Would you like me to sit with you, and help you figure it out?” Amateurs obsess about what they are going to say. Professionals obsess—it is not too strong a verb—about how they are going to say what they are going to say. This is because true professionals—they who traffic primarily in human nature—are intuitively in possession of the life-forwarding human truth that the way you say what you say is infinitely more important than what you say. Note, too, that we laid great stress—we elevated, if you will, the musical key of the question—upon the phrase “and to stay comfortably retired.” We were suggesting—as a friend should—that it’s one thing to have enough money to support that first year you’re on the beach, but you need to be sure the income will continue to suffice through three decades of a two-person retirement. The
