# Chapter 39: The Retirement Income Conversation: Non-Verbal Aspects

truth is that for most folks it won’t, and the key difference between a friend and an acquaintance is that a friend will tell you the truth, even when you don’t especially want to hear it. Amateurs seek to become people’s advisor. Professionals seek to become their friend.

39 The Retirement Income Conversation: Non-Verbal Aspects BEFORE CONSIDERING THE VERBAL ASPECTS OF THE “SIT WITH HIM and help him figure it out” conversation, we must look at its much more important non-verbal content. Now, obviously, when you’re already sitting with the person, as in the example we’re using of seatmates on a plane, you’re going to launch right into the colloquy that follows. More often, it will begin when next you meet. When and where it starts is immaterial; the issue is how it starts. If the prospect comes into your office for the meeting—as ideally he should—you don’t sit behind your desk, and let him sit in one of your guest chairs. You get up, walk around your desk and sit down next to him in the other guest chair—armed with nothing but a yellow legal pad, a pencil and a calculator. Alternatively, you and he repair to your couch, or to a round table such that there is no physical barrier between you and your prospect. Why is this so important? Because we must always, even down to the smallest and most seemingly inconsequential detail, demonstrate that we do exactly what we promised we would do. And what was the very first thing we originally offered? Of course: to sit with him.
