# Chapter 40: Double-Tap: Second Opinion

And what do the yellow legal pad and the pencil say, with unmistakable clarity? In my experience, they say two subliminally comforting things: (1) this is going to be pretty simple, and (2) I came unarmed. If you don’t immediately think these things matter, I invite you to perform the following experiment. Do one of these sessions remaining behind your desk, and entering your prospect’s answers into your omnipresent computer. Then do another one my way: literally sitting with him, and jotting down his answers in pencil. See if the result is not palpably different, not just in the way the prospect responds, but in the way you feel. Because—and this is the spine of the whole book you’re reading— the better you feel, the more you will prospect. (Note: Your firm will have taught you a relatively simple, basic method of calculating/eyeballing someone’s number, while you were in training. Make it your business also to interview three leading advisors in your firm who specialize in retirement planning, and get them to show you how they do it; then pick one. The nobrain method is just to multiply the prospect’s current income by 25; that yields the number from which he can begin withdrawing 4% in the first year of retirement. If all else fails, see the methodology I’ve laid out in the book Nick Murray’s Scripts. This isn’t rocket science; you just need to find any non-technical method you feel comfortable with, and that most prospects quickly get.)

40 Double-Tap: Second Opinion HERE’S A MORE GENERAL DOUBLE-TAP SEQUENCE, AIMED AT GETTING a short, exploratory meeting. Its narrow focus is the prospect’s current investment portfolio, but—like all successful appointments, in which the prospect starts to open up—there’s no telling where it might lead. The Set-Up Question: “Are you perfectly happy with the financial advice you’ve been getting over these last couple of years?” Prospect: (Any grudging admission of “no.”) The Hammer Question: “Can you see the wisdom of at least getting a second opinion at this point?” Him: “Why? Do you think you could have done any better?” You: “I don’t think anything at the moment, other than that, in your finances as well as in matters of your physical health, sometimes the smartest thing you can do is just to get a second opinion.” Him: “What would it cost?”

You: “It wouldn’t cost anything. Nor would it obligate you to anything. It’s just a useful way for me to get to know people, and to let them get to know me, a little bit.” Him: “How long does it take?” You: “Say 15 minutes. If it goes longer than that, it’ll probably be because you’ve thought of other questions you want to ask.” Him: “What happens in 15 minutes?” You: “You bring in your portfolio. I don’t look at it yet. I ask you to describe to me, in general terms, what you’re trying to accomplish: education, retirement, building an estate, whatever. Nothing too detailed or technical, just: who are you, what are you investing for, how much time have you got until retirement. Then I look at the portfolio. “In a few minutes, I can usually report to you one of two general conclusions. One is that I think the portfolio is reasonably well-suited to your goals; that, although I might tweak it here and there if I were managing it, I think it’s conceptually appropriate, given where you’re trying to go. “And the other is that I think the portfolio and the goals are disconnected in some fundamental way—that this train doesn’t go to your station. If that’s where I come out—and only if you
