# Chapter 41: Second Opinion: Commentary

want me to—I tell you in general terms what I’d recommend you do to bring the portfolio and the goals into alignment. “One way or the other, that’s the end of the second opinion conversation—unless you decide you want it to go further. But I won’t try to make that decision for you.” Him: “And that doesn’t cost anything?” You: “Well…I’d appreciate it if you’d bring in the coffee.” And maybe he smiles a little at that. And maybe, when he does, you start to become friends. Which, I need hardly remind you, was the object of the exercise all along.

41 Second Opinion: Commentary NOTE CAREFULLY THE SIGNIFICANCE OF EVERY WELL-CHOSEN WORD in this seemingly casual and relaxed approach on your part. First of all, you didn’t ask if he was happy with the investment advice he’d been getting; you asked a broader gauge question about financial advice. Yes, your specific goal is a portfolio review—but what if the guy happens to have a burr under his saddle about some other aspect of the advice he’s been getting? Don’t limit yourself. Give the prospecting miracle room to happen. And you most particularly didn’t ask if he was happy with his advisor, because that’s not where you want the conversation to go, at least not yet. There’ll be plenty of time gently to suggest that the current advisor may not be too smart, when and if you get to the point of demonstrating that the portfolio doesn’t fit the goals. Finally, the thing that’s wrong with challenging the advisor is that these days the prospect may very well be his own advisor, in which case you’ve gone adversarial as soon as you opened your mouth. “Not too detailed or technical…in general terms…conceptually.” All these are notions that cue a very comforting, non-threatening, relaxed atmosphere. You’re just trying to calm him down, and the best way to do that is for you to be calm, low-key, and friendly.
