# Chapter 42: Double-Tap Variations

And finally, the prospect just may come to think, “How bad can I get hurt in 15 minutes, if I know I don’t have to pay anything, or buy anything? Hey, I might even learn something, for the price of a couple of Starbucks coffees.” That’s where we want him. But he won’t get there by himself. We have to get him there, with our own comforting cues, gestures, words and music. That’s your job. Not to prove anything, not to win an argument (which no one ever can anyway), not to arm-wrestle the guy into an appointment. Just to get him to begin to suspect that something good might happen to him if he talks to you for a very little while—and that he has no downside. Amateurs ask themselves what they’re making the prospect think. Professionals ask themselves how they’re making him feel.

42 Double-Tap Variations You: “Do you know how much your family would have to pay in estate taxes—and where the money would come from—if, God forbid, the tax became payable tomorrow?” Him: (Low, moaning noise) You: “Would you like me to sit with you and help you figure it out, understanding that there’ll be no cost to you in my doing that, nor any obligation?” Or how about this one: You: “Do you know pretty much exactly what it will cost your children to give your grandchildren the education you gave them?” Her: (Indecipherable sounds) You: “Would you like me to sit with you etc., etc.?” What technical knowledge or analytical skill is required for you to start either of these conversations? Virtually none. You know at any given moment what the estate tax rate is, and after what exemption it kicks in. You can go online, look up the current
