# Chapter 43: What Are These Scripts for?

tuition at a variety of schools, inflate it at some plug inflation rate for the number of years until the grandchildren get there, and voila. (Indeed, virtually all the better mutual fund families have software for this.) What all the variations on the Double-Tap theme have in common—other than The Set-Up and The Hammer—is that they all address a financial planning need. And in most cases (second opinion is an exception), not just a vague, ill-defined, conceptual need: a specific number, which intelligent prospects should want to know and haven’t found out…because they’re terrified of what it will turn out to be. What is a financial advisor? She is a friend who helps you discover the great truths about your financial life that you need to know, but don’t. What is prospecting? It is the habit of going around, asking potential friends questions which will lead to the discovery of the great financial truths about themselves that they need to know… but don’t. I ask you: How could anyone not love prospecting?

43 What Are These Scripts for? THESE VERY BASIC SCRIPTS ARE OFFERED IN EVIDENCE OF THE FACT that scripts ultimately don’t matter. I’ve already stated a number of times—and may do so yet again—that it doesn’t matter how you prospect, it doesn’t matter whom you prospect, and it doesn’t matter what you say. As their author, let me extend to you my absolute, unconditional, ironclad guarantee that these scripts will never make you successful. Reciting these scripts (or any other scripts you feel good saying) to potential prospects again and again—slowly increasing the number of times you recite them as you grow stronger over the next several years—will make you successful. Or nothing will. Scripts are like any other technique. I freely acknowledge that, when I started out, I needed scripts. I needed to know, pretty much word for word, what I was supposed to say, because I found out fairly early that I could sell just about anything I believed in (and dear God, what a discovery that was!) if someone would tell me exactly what I was supposed to say about it. Such were my anxiety levels. I just couldn’t learn to ride that bike without training wheels. I rapidly progressed to writing my own scripts. But they were still, word for word, what I planned to say. I filled up a whole journal
