# Chapter 44: Prospecting with Your Authentic Self

with those scripts. I filled up another whole journal with questions-and-objections-handling scripts that I went around cadging from successful producers in my office and my firm. I believe in scripts—wrote a whole book of them in 2019—just so long as you understand that it is not the script but your joyous, ceaseless repetition of the script that makes you successful. All technique is like that, by the way. It supports you while you’re learning to believe in and trust yourself, so that you can then grow out of it. Technique is what you do while you’re waiting for your authentic self and your external persona to fuse, and become one. Indeed, that’s my working definition of authenticity: what your prospects see is exactly what they get, with no conscious effort on your part.

44 Prospecting with Your Authentic Self WE COME, THEN, TO THE END OF THIS EXTENDED MEDITATION ON prospecting behavior. In it, we have discovered that you will do best prospecting as your authentic self: speaking in your true voice about what you most love to do, professionally, and how you can be of the most help to people. For the closer you are to your own inner joy in the business, the better you will sound, and the more you will be happy to try out your joy on one more prospect today. We’ve established further that you want to be starting conversations whose sole aim is a face to face meeting, and that the simplest way to do that is to offer a narrowly focused, non-threatening, critically important piece of information, free of cost and obligation. Above all—and this is my fondest hope, not just for this section of the book but for the book in sum—we have clearly set down the most important qualitative realization you can ever have about prospecting: that the prospects aren’t qualifying you; you are qualifying them, to establish whether they will be one of the 250 families/households worthy to be taken under your stewardship.
