# Chapter 48: The Error of Judgment

Both types of readers have one very important thing in common: you don’t jump up off the couch after many sedentary years, step out the door, and run a marathon. Instead, you train for it. You put on your sweats, do a couple of simple stretching exercises, walk out the door (or hop up on the treadmill), and jog at an easy pace until you find yourself becoming short of breath. That’s it. That’s the first day of your distance running life. You’re an unqualified success. How far did you jog? How fast? Could anything possibly matter less?

48 The Error of Judgment JUDGMENT HAS ABSOLUTELY NO PLACE AT THE BEGINNING OF AN endurance training effort. You were not “supposed” to run any specific distance, nor at any specific pace, on that first day. All that was asked of you was that you make a start, and that you begin to get a sense of your current capacities, be these what they may. You can only do what you can do. Nothing and no one—not even your own demanding, overachieving self—can ask for more. The suspension of judgment is almost intuitive at the beginning of a distance running program, but much less so in prospecting. Why is that, do you suppose? Right: in running, we instinctively know we will get progressively better (i.e. gradually able to run farther and faster) with consistent practice. But many of us don’t begin with anything like that same unconscious confidence about prospecting. This is unfortunate—and easily unlearned—inasmuch as the principles governing the development of both capacities are precisely the same. You’re conducting a scientific experiment, and the subject you’re examining is yourself. Science does not concern itself with “should”; it holds no opinion on what “should” happen, but is
