# Chapter 49: Establishing a Baseline

instead concerned only with what happens. No one “should” run two miles on his first day of endurance training, any more than anyone “should” make two hundred cold calls, or knock on a hundred doors. Suit up, show up, and observe—as dispassionately as possible—what you can do, that first day of the rest of your prospecting life.

49 Establishing a Baseline ALL SCIENCE—NOT JUST BEHAVIORAL PSYCHOLOGY—BEGINS WITH the collection of baseline data. It seeks, first, to know what is. Let us suppose that, your first day on the treadmill, you set the speed at 4.5 miles an hour—an easy jog—and found that you could go three tenths of a mile before starting to feel uncomfortably winded. Here’s a spot quiz: is three tenths of a mile at four and a half miles per hour a relatively good, about average, or below-average result for someone who has been sedentary for, say, five years? If you chose any of those three answers to the question, you flunked the quiz. You still don’t get it. The variables three tenths of a mile and four and a half miles per hour exist only as data points. They have no other intellectual nor emotional weight, and they do not relate to any other data, real or imagined (e.g. what they “should” have been). They are what they are. All they do is to give you the beginnings of an understanding of your baseline capability. Now you test that thesis. You limber up, go out, and do three tenths of a mile at four and a half miles an hour each training day
