# Chapter 50: What If You Can't?

for the next two weeks (counting Day One). Even if you feel, late in the second week, that you may be able to do more, don’t do it… but don’t, for these next two weeks, ever do less. If you can sustain that distance and pace for two solid weeks—no more, no less—you have good reason to adopt, as a scientific hypothesis, the possibility that this is your baseline, defined as your minimum capability, no matter what else is going on, every day. If you can’t, that’s more good information. There are, after all, only two possible outcomes over this initial two-week period. One is that you sustain your Day One distance and pace for the full two weeks. And the other is that you don’t. Neither outcome is “good” or “bad.” Indeed, neither is qualitatively any different from the other. Whichever outcome, it’s just a bit more very useful data.

50 What If You Can’t? LET US SAY THAT, ON THE EIGHTH DAY OF THE INITIAL TWO-WEEK data-collection period, you don’t make it to the gym, and don’t substitute an easy jog around the block that sort of feels like what the treadmill experience felt like for the last eight days. First, suspend the experiment. Tomorrow, you will start again. But on this eighth day, when the “show-up” muscle somehow didn’t get exercised, you’ll want to write in your journal about the experience of not maintaining your potential baseline. What did it feel like? Without inventing excuses (because nothing is wrong), why do you think it happened? Is it possible that you pushed yourself too hard, that deep down you thought you “should” be doing more, right out of the gate? Or did you let yourself get overscheduled, such that your “busyness” was permitted to crowd out your exercise time? Did you actually feel pain, or some kind of physical constraint that prevented you from jogging? What made you miss, and what can you do to work around or through it? Maybe you were trying to do your exercise at different times on different days. If that’s the case, you’ll simply decide that you need to block out the same hour every day. So be it. If you can
