# Chapter 53: Remember How We're Keeping Score

52 It’s Not the Level; It’s the Trajectory NOW, PERHAPS, YOU BEGIN TO GET A GLIMPSE OF HOW UTTERLY irrelevant your initial baseline number is—why it can cheerfully be whatever you’re comfortable with, and can therefore sustain for two weeks. Because if you were then able to raise it even 10% from its last level every succeeding two weeks, in a year your running distance would have gone from a third of a mile to four miles a day. Not a marathon, I grant you, but not at all shabby for somebody who was sitting on the couch eating Ruffles just a year earlier. If you started knocking on 10 doors a day, you’d be knocking on about 120 after a year. If you started attempting 20 outgoing prospecting calls, you’d be close to 240. And you’d have done all this by training, not by straining. By finding a measured, baseline pace at which to begin a consistent effort. And by building on it in relatively small but regular increments. Heck, even if you raised the activity level 10% once a month, you’d be at these championship levels of prospecting activity in little more than two years. Once more, with feeling: train, don’t strain.

53 Remember How We’re Keeping Score IN WORKING TO ESTABLISH A BASELINE NUMBER OF PROSPECTING approaches, it’s critical to remember that those are what you’re going to count: approaches, as we have defined them. That is, an approach is a genuine attempt to start a conversation with someone which might lead to his enlisting our services. The outcome of such an attempt is outside our control, and for that reason alone must not be how we keep score. The only thing we can control is the one thing we must learn to control, and that is our own behavior. What the person on the other side of the door does or says—or whether the receptionist will even tell him you’d like to see him, or even whether he is there at all—are variables beyond your control. There is only one thing you can control, and that’s whether or not you knock on that door. Whether the plumbing and heating contractor or the estate attorney whose number you are just now calling is there, or will take your call, or will brush you off, or will become the greatest referral source of your career—you can’t know, and can do virtually nothing to control. All you can do is make the call, as starkly opposed to not making the call.
