# Chapter 54: Record Your Activity

This, then—I solemnly remind you—is how we measure prospecting activity, and the only way we measure it. It is the act of attempting to start a conversation. It is the act of risking that we will hear another human being say “no”—which is the only way in the world to get into a position where we might hear him say “yes.” It is the only thing we count, because it is the only thing that counts.

54 Record Your Activity EACH DAY, YOU’RE GOING TO RECORD YOUR PROSPECTING ACTIVITY in your journal. This can be as simple as heading a page with each day’s baseline number of approaches, and then entering a hashmark every time you do one, until you get to the target number. It can on occasion be a note on what a prospect said, how you responded, and how you felt about the interaction. It can be anything, and it’s all good information, as long as (a) it’s consistent, and (b) it’s fundamentally objective, in that it lets you see your activity in relation to your target every prospecting day. You’re an adult. You’ll know how to record your activity in your journal. After all, it is in a sense your professional autobiography. Everything you put into it will tell you something—and potentially something important—about yourself. Just for instance, if you record the time of each prospecting behavior, you may after a while start to see a pattern as to when you’re feeling most confident during the day, and therefore when you’re most productive. Don’t overthink what you’re going to enter in your journal each day, beyond the baseline data. Let it flow, and it will surely amaze you. (After 30 years of writing books, and 20 years of doing my
