# Chapter 55: Shark Attack

newsletter, my personal observation is, “How can I know what I think until I read what I wrote?”) Just respect the psychological power of making your daily record—of externalizing your experience, so that it becomes objectively real, and so that you can learn from it. Trust yourself. You’ll know what to write. But assume that the experience of prospecting does not become real until it is written down.

55 Shark Attack IN A PERFECT WORLD, YOU WOULD BE ABLE BLISSFULLY TO COMpound your prospecting activity at 10% every two weeks, at will, for as long as you chose to do so. But in a perfect world, there’d be no such thing as prospecting anxiety. We live in an imperfect world, two thirds of which is covered by shark-infested waters. Have you ever started a diet, and had it fail? How about a new workout regimen, or indeed any positive program of self-improvement, which after a while (and some success) just seemed to drift away? That was the shark: Pressfield’s concept of Resistance, my narrower concept of prospecting Avoidance—they’re effectively the same. Some powerful unconscious fear (of failure, of success, of becoming who we dream of becoming) tells us that we really don’t want to go there. It whispers to us that changing—in the way we say we want to change—would end up somehow hurting much worse than staying as we are. So we don’t. Establishing a baseline level of prospecting activity, perhaps after a number of tries, then expanding it by 10% after two weeks, then expanding it again, and then again…this is just naturally going to drive the shark into a feeding frenzy. It’s like chumming with the
