# Chapter 56: Tactical—and Temporary—Retreat

bloodiest bait you can find. Sooner or later, the shark is going to come for you. He will almost certainly hit you during one or another of your twoweek stops at a new high level of prospecting activity. Suddenly, for reasons you can’t even imagine—much less explain or excuse—you will not complete the two weeks of activity at your prescribed level. What do you do then? You do four things.

56 Tactical—and Temporary—Retreat 1. A s soon as you miss a day, stop right where you are. Do not try to complete the two weeks at the “shoulda” level. There is no “shoulda.” 2. Suspend judgment. Avoid self-recrimination. It’s all data. It’s all part of the continuing experiment. 3. The night you go off the program—certainly no later than the next morning—write in your journal about what happened, how you were feeling, what the tell-tale signs might have been (did you have an argument with a client? a dispute with your manager? something at home?). This is terribly important. The shark of Avoidance can only kill you if it can get you alone, make you ashamed, and take your voice away. As long as you have the ability to bring your anxiety levels down by writing dispassionately and intelligently to yourself about yourself—trying scientifically and non-judgmentally to parse the problem—you still have your voice, and therefore you can come out of this shark encounter smarter and stronger.

4. Then retreat to the last level of activity you were able to sustain for two weeks, and see if you can sustain it for another two. Don’t worry that you’re plateauing. You’ve had a setback. Accept it as such, and work to contain it, at the last sustainable level you experienced. Chances are that as you pull back, your anxiety levels will come way down, if only because you had a rational plan for how to retreat, and where to retreat to. The experience of a tactical fallback is infinitely different from that of panicky flight. Put in your two weeks at the previous level, and then try the new level—the place where the shark attacked, and caused you to retreat—once again. Proceed only when you have mastered that level of activity for two weeks. But if you find that you can’t hold your first fallback position—that you drop down to the last level sustained, only to discover that your cage is so rattled you can’t sustain it—then simply pull back again. And again, as needed, until you come down to a level you can sustain for two weeks. It does not matter what that level is. It matters only that you have a plan for retreating to a psychologically safe baseline. Re-establish it firmly, and then prepare to advance once more. You simply cannot lose if you continue doing this: advancing gradually, then—if and when necessary—retreating to a previously defensible base, then advancing again. Tactical retreat in the face of a renewed Avoidance attack need be no more than that—a tactical retreat to a safe level, while your anxiety subsides. You can only lose
