# Chapter 57: Fun with Rewards

if you stop altogether. You can only lose if you abandon faith in, and give up the search for, your baseline—wherever, and for whatever reason, it has moved. You either have a potential baseline number that you’re working this week firmly in your mind—and could tell it to me, if I jumped out of the bushes and asked you, almost as fast as you can tell me your name, and faster than you can tell me your Social Security number—or you don’t. If you do, you’re still alive. And where there’s prospecting life, there’s prospecting hope. If you don’t, you’re like Bruce Willis in the film The Sixth Sense. You’re dead. You just don’t know it. So be it. The shark won a round. But he has not won the fight. Get honest—but non-judgmental—with yourself. Start over. It’s Day One on the treadmill, and you’re looking for your baseline. You know how to do this.

57 Fun with Rewards MAKE A GAME OUT OF IT. That’s the whole idea of this book, hence its title. Make a game out of prospecting, because prospecting is The Game You Always Win If You Do Not Stop Playing It. Specifically, make a game out of your daily quest for the achievement of your baseline number of prospecting approaches. The simplest—and to my mind the most psychologically valid— approach to making a game out of prospecting is to create a daily list of all the things (or even just one big thing) you are going to really want to enjoy doing today—and then make your ability to do them contingent on your completion of that day’s prospecting activity. That is, all of today’s pleasurable activities are permissible only if and to the extent that you keep your prospecting commitment. Suppose my target baseline activity each day this week is to place introductory calls to 50 plumbing and heating contractors. And let’s say that I’m not all that eager to do this today. But let’s say further that I like to start off every day with a great big cup of good coffee, and a leisurely perusal of the Wall Street Journal.

Perfect; this is an incipient reward system just begging to be made manifest. Today, I can have my morning coffee…just as soon as I make my first five approaches. And I can certainly read the Wall Street Journal…after I make five more. Now, today’s the day we have our biweekly call with my firm’s chief economist, a woman for whom I have great respect, and from whom I always learn something. I try never to miss her call, and in the bad old days, I used to sit in on the call instead of prospecting. Maybe I was honest with myself—that it was really Avoidance on the other end of the phone—but probably not. No matter; I know and accept it now, so I can only go into the conference room to hear the call this morning…if I’ve made five more approaches. Don’t look now, but that coffee tasted better than it ever has before, I picked up a dazzling insight from an op-ed piece in the Journal, and our economist explained the importance of productivity growth in a way I’d never really understood before. I feel terrific. And why? Because I’m using the things I like to do as rewards for appropriate prospecting behavior, rather than as foxholes of Avoidance. That’s why. Next, I’ve got lunch scheduled with an old friend, a guy I really like hanging out with, and who is one day going to inherit a bunch of money, which I believe I’ll get to manage. I’ve been looking forward to this lunch for over a week, since we made the date. And I’m really going to enjoy it…if and after I make 10 more approaches. That is, I can no longer take this lunch break; I have to earn it.

If I don’t, of course, I’m going to have to call and cancel, and this I very much do not want to do. So I make my approaches; I’m halfway through my baseline number of calls; there’s a shine on my shoes and a melody in my heart; and I’m off to lunch. And of course I thoroughly enjoy it, because I’m keenly aware that it’s a reward instead of an Avoidance. This could get habit-forming! On the way back from lunch, I pick up another great cup of coffee…which I get to drink after five more approaches. Now it’s 2:00 and I’m on the downhill side: only 20 more approaches to go, and wouldn’t you know it? Duke is playing North Carolina on CBS tonight, at Cameron. This is the greatest rivalry in sports, baby! (I’m doing my Dickie V. voice, here.) I never miss a Duke-UNC game! But—yes, you guessed it—I am sure as hell going to miss this one…if I don’t make my 20 remaining approaches this afternoon. No surprise: I do. OK, today might have been a layup, because I wanted to have lunch with my buddy so badly—and because, hey, Duke only plays UNC twice during the regular season. I wouldn’t have missed these things for the world, so there was no way I wasn’t going to get my baseline number of approaches in. The challenge is to organize every prospecting day like that. And you’ll get to the point where you can do this almost at will. Whether it’s watching sports, books you want to read, your favorite TV shows, new movies you want to see, getting a facial, taking a
