# Chapter 58: These Are the Fundamentals

golf lesson, devouring your monthly issue of Nick Murray Interactive, or even an ice cream cone on a hot day—with a little bit of forethought, you can make a reward system that will take you through your whole prospecting day, approach by approach and fun reward by fun reward. And the bonus is that the fun things will feel like so much more fun, because you’re so unconflicted about enjoying them to the hilt. This is beyond self-reinforcing appropriate behavior. Like all endurance training, this is a virtuous cycle, just as every small surrender to Avoidance is part of a downward spiral.

58 These Are the Fundamentals THE SEQUENCE OF INSTRUCTIONS YOU’VE JUST READ IS BEHAVIORal Psychology 101—the most fundamental principles of behavior modification, applied to prospecting. Hey, if humans can teach dolphins to dance on their tails by throwing them a little dead fish every time they do something right, you can learn to section your prospecting day into a series of rewards for prospecting approaches. Keeping score by appropriate activity, not by outcomes. Writing everything down—and not just the facts but the feelings. Establishing a baseline number of appropriate behaviors each day. Sustaining it for two weeks. Raising the baseline level in very small (but compound, if at all possible) increments. Falling back to a pre-established level when anxiety temporarily stymies progress. Getting comfortable again at that level, then cautiously resuming the advance. Even starting all over again, if you have to—as many times as you have to, but never quitting altogether. These are to behavior modification what blocking and tackling are to football. They are the most basic fundamentals. You can train to run a marathon, lose all the weight you need to, and even stop smoking using these very same principles—excepting only that you seek progressively to raise the baseline for healthy activities, but lower it for

unhealthy ones. The principles of positive behavioral change are universal, and always simple. This is not to suggest that there aren’t many glorious refinements. There surely are…but they’re only refinements, and must never be mistaken for fundamentals. For instance, the very basic prospecting behavior system you’ve just seen assigns all activities the same weight: one prospecting approach, one hashmark toward your target number of baseline hashmarks. But you might (just for example) want at some point to wean yourself off the phone, and to vector your prospecting behavior toward real, knocking on doors, face to face approaches. You might therefore elect to assign a value of one hashmark to a telephone approach, but three hashmarks to a knock upon a door. Particularly late in a prospecting day, this might get you up and moving, because otherwise you’d risk missing your target. Passing through the gate of that perception, you enter upon a whole garden of choices. Perhaps you will find it productive and fun to begin keeping score not just by outgoing approaches, but by other appropriate happenings. If an attorney you know refers a terrific prospect to you, would that not, at some point in the development of your behavioral portfolio, be worth a couple or three hashmarks? Might getting an appointment be worth at least thrice the hashmark value of an outgoing phone approach that went nowhere? In other words, mightn’t scorekeeping gradually become qualitative
