# Chapter 59: A Special Guide for Re-Starters

as well as quantitative—say, at the end of a solid year of purely quantitative mastery of the steadily increasing baseline system? It might, and you may eventually decide that it should…but again, not until you’ve put in a year of baseline-building. I know I keep saying this (and I’ll say it again as often as I like, which I hope will be exactly as often as you need to hear it): you’re a responsible adult, capable of making mature decisions. Which means that, after learning (by doing) and mastering the behavioral fundamentals of The Game You Always Win If You Do Not Stop Playing It, you may and probably should evolve into your own scorekeeper.

59 A Special Guide for Re-Starters NEWBIES, PLEASE STAND BY FOR A FEW PAGES (AND READ THEM IN the spirit of “There but for the grace of God go I”) while I address some specific instructions to re-starters Those of you in mid-career, seeking to blast off your plateaus and/or to escape other self-imposed limitations, will not have failed to notice that the foregoing program assumes to some extent that its practitioner has the whole day to prospect. Let’s recognize that you don’t have that luxury. So what we need to do is to build you a compartment, inside your day, during which you do nothing but prospect. Thus the key concept is compartment. It was not a word chosen at random. The compartment must be hermetically sealed against all distractions. It must be in the same time slot every day. And it must be every day. These three characteristics are non-negotiable. I said earlier, and now repeat, that if your goals for assets under management, number of client households and/or income involve anything even remotely like doubling in the next five years, you had better commit yourself right now to prospecting for a minimum of two hours every business day for those five years. You cannot accomplish these goals without a commensurate expenditure of prospecting time, energy and focus.
