# Chapter 60: Re-Starting, Part Deux: Clearing Away the Wreckage

OK, look: if your eight-year-old daughter’s Spring dance recital— the one they started rehearsing right after the Christmas pageant— falls into your prospecting time compartment, that one day you can move the compartment. But you can’t skip it. Something or somebody else will have to wait. Again, you can move the compartment within the day, for good and compelling personal reasons. What you cannot do—what you can never do—is skip your prospecting slot because Mrs. Gefarbnick and her attorney Bernie suddenly want to come in precisely at that hour to talk about why her portfolio is down 18.62% when the market is down only 16.82%, or about putting her variable universal life insurance policy into a life insurance trust—where it always belonged in the first place, but upon which the selfsame Bernie previously put the kibosh. Mrs. Gefarbnick is in actuality none other than the shark, in one of his more elaborate disguises. He is trying to create the illusion of an emergency—the illusion that, just this once, you’re…you guessed it… too busy to prospect. If he can do that, even just this once, he’s got you. If he can’t, you drove him off, after putting a pretty good-sized harpoon in him. There is no third possible outcome. This isn’t life or death. It’s much more important than that. You’ve been warned.

60 Re-Starting, Part Deux: Clearing Away the Wreckage IT IS AXIOMATIC THAT MID-CAREER ADVISORS WHO NEED SIGNIFIcantly to expand their practices are telling themselves they work all day, and some even think they work hard. These conclusions may or may not have any basis in fact. But whether they do or not is immaterial: underachieving advisors who perceive their days to be fully occupied are (a) working on the wrong things, (b) working on stuff an assistant should be doing, or (c) not working on anything much at all. This isn’t a value judgment, and it isn’t meant as an indictment. If anything, it’s a testament to the ability of the shark to get inside advisors’ heads and get them living the worst kind of lie, which is self-deception. All this means in practice is that the re-starting advisor will not immediately see a two-hour empty space in her day, into which she can insert her prospecting compartment without significantly altering her behavior pattern. The whole day is littered with secondary and tertiary things, people, activities and pursuits which will have to be cleared away in order to create that all-important two-hour box of prospecting time.
