# Chapter 61: Firing Your Biggest PITA

Herewith, then, some key steps which will open up not just your day but your self-regard, and even your soul. The first and most important action—the thing that will be the key test of the advisor’s courage and renewed commitment to prospecting for a materially enhanced practice and life—is firing your biggest PITA account.

61 Firing Your Biggest PITA ALL OF US, AT ONE TIME OR ANOTHER, HAVE HAD ONE VERY BIG account who is just a total jerk—an energy drain we dread talking to, because he (or she) just takes the heart out of us at every interaction, with constant criticism, carping about fees, second-guessing our advice, and just general negativity. Not infrequently, this PITA—which stands, of course, for Pain In The, uh, Neck—will actually be our biggest “client.” (In my first seven struggling years in the business, I let this happen to me not once but twice, first with a woman and then with a man. You could say I was an equal-opportunity coward.) Why would we ever tolerate any problem/difficult/critical/carping/ unpleasant account, much less a person as malignant as our biggest PITA? Of course: because the shark has told us that we need the business and can’t replace it. And that therefore we have to shut up and accept the abuse, because it’s the only way we can get this kind of money. These are all lies, and living with them is often the source of the most crippling psychological conflict in our professional life. As your first official act, The New You—the person who has irrevocably committed himself to becoming the advisor he knows he’s
