# Chapter 62: The Letter

capable of being instead of the advisor he now is—is going to fire your biggest PITA. Cortez arrived in Mexico with a band of about 500 men, a number of horses and some guns, with the aim of conquering a huge and very advanced Aztec civilization whose capital then as now was one of the largest cities in the world. Upon reaching land, Cortez offloaded all the men, horses, weapons and stores from his ships… and then scuttled them before the eyes of his assembled troops. The message was: we win or we die. They won. The New You will, too—once you cut off any avenue of retreat back into the grey twilight of mediocrity from which you’ve resolved to escape. This begins with scuttling the plague-ridden death ship that is your biggest PITA. You see, you don’t need the money. You need the self-respect. You need to know that you’re the kind of person who can prospect as long and as hard as it takes to replace the PITA’s business—and plenty more besides—with people you like, and who like and respect you. This is your fundamental right. And those people are out there. But you will never muster the requisite prospecting energy to go out and find them while your soul is being sucked dry by the PITA. He has to go, right now.

62 The Letter YOU AREN’T GOING TO CALL HIM—THAT WILL ONLY LEAD TO THE argument on which he thrives—and you aren’t going to write him the scathing, vituperative letter you long to write, and which he so richly deserves. The New You has way too much class for that… and it’s with consummate class that you’re going to go out. You’ll write to him as follows: Dear PITA, I’m in the process of making some very significant changes in the nature of my business and my life. To that end, I’ve lately been reappraising all my client relationships. In reviewing our relationship over the last couple of years, I’ve concluded that I will never really be able to serve you in the way you seem to need. That being the case, I think it would be unfair of me to try to retain your account, and I’m therefore resigning it. I have asked my office manager, Alfred E. Newman, to be directly in touch with you, in order to try to identify another advisor whose capabilities are more compatible with your needs than mine have been. I thank you for all your past business, and wish you every continued success. Sincerely, The New You P.S. I hope your cat dies.
