# Chapter 63: Stop Buying Lottery Tickets

OK, I was only kidding about the cat thing; you can’t put that in there. But you probably sensed that. You’ll notice that you don’t recriminate with him, blame him, or criticize him in any way. Indeed, in this letter you accept the responsibility for the failure of the relationship. And you are right to do so: he was a passive-aggressive churl from the get-go, and always will be. Yours was the fault for taking him on in the first place. But now you’re free…or nearly so. There’s just one more hurdle you have to get over. That’s when he calls you and tries to talk you into taking him back, saying things that people like this always say, such as “You took it the wrong way.” You must not take that call. Have it transferred to your manager, compliance officer, or whoever. Because the creature on the other end of the phone isn’t the PITA anymore. Right. You’re getting good at this. It’s the shark.

63 Stop Buying Lottery Tickets NEXT, YOU’RE GOING TO DISPOSE OF THE BOTTOM THIRD OF YOUR account book. The shark tells you that the bottom third of your accounts—who don’t do any business with you, don’t have any money, and don’t refer you—are worth keeping because they don’t cause any real trouble and don’t take up any real time. Like everything else the shark says, this is a lie. The plain, incontrovertible fact is that the bottom third of your book, which produces far less than a third of your revenue, also produces two thirds of all your most truly vexing administrative problems, especially in the two-month run-up to tax time. The reason that you keep these people is because you’re trying to win the lottery. You’re telling yourself that one of these nonentities is one day going to refer you to his fishing buddy, who is—in the word of Forrest Gump—a go-zillionaire. Or that some garage mechanic’s longlost uncle is going to die someday and leave him five million bucks. Here on Planet Earth, this doesn’t happen. People of very modest means are connected by blood, marriage, occupation and neighborhood to…other such people. Affluent people generally don’t
