# Chapter 64: The Third Piece: Offloading Busywork

hang with such people. They don’t trust them, feel uncomfortable around them, and above all don’t understand why they wouldn’t better themselves. (Meanwhile, your guy’s long-lost uncle is actually in a Medicaid nursing home on the banks of the Okefenokee Swamp.) By keeping them, you’re trying to win the lottery. You’re saying that you can never prospect yourself into the business you want, so you buy lottery tickets. Poor people buy lottery tickets, because they didn’t get the memo which says that through personal initiative, hard work and thrift, anybody in America can become financially independent. But you did get that memo. Start behaving as if you’d read it. Cut ’em loose. Dear Client: I’ve begun making some major changes in my business as well as my life, and I find that I’ve gotten overcommitted in terms of the number of people I can effectively serve. I’ve always felt that I deserved only the business of people to whom I can give the full measure of my time and energy, and that if I can’t do that, I must find them an advisor who can. That’s kind of the crossroads I’ve come to. We have a delightful young advisor here in our office named Min E. Mouse, who I believe is much better able to serve you well at this point than I am. I have asked her to be in touch with you, and I believe you will really enjoy each other. Thank you for all your past business. I wish you every future success. Sincerely, Lem E. Outtahere

64 The Third Piece: Offloading Busywork THE THIRD AND FINAL STEP IN CARVING OUT A DAILY TWO-HOUR BOX of prospecting time is in clearing your desk now and for all future time of anything that can be adequately done by someone who makes, say, $30 to $40 dollars an hour including benefits. If you really believe you are capable of having a practice that produces gross revenues of anything close to $1 million a year, you’re talking about generating roughly $500 per working hour over about 250 eight-hour work days in a year. If you are using a potentially $500 hour to do work that can be reasonably performed by someone earning $35, you are totally nuts and/or the shark has got you desperately doing any busywork that comes to hand so that you can tell yourself you don’t have time to prospect. Snap out of it. Hand this stuff off to the help, and if you don’t have such help, hire it by nightfall. The New You can’t afford not to. Now: having fired your biggest PITA, lopped off the bottom third of your book, and shoveled all busywork off your desk forever, are you still going to try to tell yourself you haven’t found two solid, interruption-proof, distraction-proof hours in every day?
