# Chapter 66: Keep Those Cards and Letters Coming

65 Oxygenating Your Attitude (THE BREAKOUT SESSION FOR RE-STARTERS HAS NOW ENDED, AND we’re all together again in the general session.) How did we ever train to run distances before iTunes? Future generations will not even be able to conceive of it. Our music, we found, had the power completely to alter the experience. We ran farther and/or faster (and in either case easier) to the Goldberg Variations, or Abbey Road, or just a random shuffle of our life’s greatest hits than we had previously…even though our physiology was the same. Or was it? You will find that endurance prospecting is like that. Without in any dramatic way affecting outcomes—because the law of large numbers can never be evaded—there are certain fairly obvious lowcost, high-payoff attitude oxygenators which you can spread among your prospecting behaviors and throughout your prospecting day. At the very least, they can give you the positive energy (through reduced anxiety) you need to reach your all-important prospecting activity target today. At best, they will make you sound and even look better, such that people will begin responding to you more positively.

66 Keep Those Cards and Letters Coming ARE YOU EVER BOTHERED BY GETTING JUST TOO MANY CARDS ON your birthday? How about your wedding anniversary; does it drive you to distraction finding all those cards jamming your mailbox? What’s that you say? No? Let me understand this: are you suggesting not only that there may not be any such thing as “too many” birthday cards, but that you yourself might not mind getting a few more this next birthday? Welcome to the club. Everybody gets a kick out of receiving birthday cards, and wedding anniversary cards are a twofer: when you send one, you warm two hearts. The same general principle applies to Mother’s Day, Father’s Day, Halloween, Thanksgiving, and even—for those who observe it—Christmas. (Christmas cards are the least effective, for the obvious reason that everybody sends— and gets—them.) I still go back and forth about Groundhog Day. I would never have a client, nor even a semi-warm prospect, who didn’t get a birthday card from me, nor a married couple who didn’t get an anniversary card. I’d never have a guy who I knew to be a father who didn’t hear from me on Father’s Day, nor a mom on Mother’s Day. The cost is too small, and the emotional payback too huge, to let this opportunity ever slip away.
