# Chapter 67: Thank You for Everything…and Nothing

And when I say “emotional payback,” please understand that I’m not referring to the client/prospect reaction—which I can neither predict nor control—to even the slightest degree. I’m talking about the way doing this makes me feel—the delicious oxygenation of my attitude that expending this very small effort invariably produces in me. I love writing these cards. Truth be told, I love the whole ritual: picking them out, then writing them, then addressing and stamping the envelope, then putting them in the mail. Makes my day. Know what else I love? Postcards. People don’t send postcards so much anymore—they email you pictures they took on their iPhones. Or they post them on Instagram. Which isn’t bad, I guess. But to me it’s just not the same experience as getting a postcard in the mail from some nifty destination—and from some interesting person who cared enough to send the card. Going on vacation to someplace nice, or just someplace you particularly love? Save one morning to send your best clients and prospects postcards. See if you don’t get a big charge out of it. And—I almost forgot—see if someone doesn’t go out of his way to return the warmth when you get home.

67 Thank You for Everything...and Nothing JUST CAN’T PICK UP THAT 300 POUND TELEPHONE AGAIN, EVEN though you haven’t hit your baseline target yet today? Try this. Stop right where you are. Take a very deep breath, hold it for 10 seconds, and then exhale slowly. Do this three times. You’ll find that your anxiety level is already coming down. Now, whip out your journal and read your Gratitude List. Next, write somebody a thank you note. To whom will you write, and about what? Could anything possibly matter less? You had a good conversation with a client or prospect this morning. Write her a note, just telling her that you enjoyed the conversation, and—in a sentence, two at the most—why. Stamp it, mail it…try another prospecting approach. The counter person who drew your cup of coffee this morning focused, smiled, wished you a good day, and seemed to mean it. Didn’t go through the motions on somnolent autopilot; didn’t overdo it like a cheerleader on speed. Just: human, focused, and nice. Write her a note. Now try another prospecting approach.

Then write to her manager, and try yet another approach. Make a game out of “thank you” and other gratuitously nice notes. Aaron Hemsley—who in his traveling days was a “thank you” ninja warrior—told me he had gotten to the point where he could change his whole day, and at least one other person’s, just by threatening to write a thank-you note. Having taken his first class seat on a plane—even as other people were still boarding, while the plane was still at the gate—he would ask to speak to the senior flight attendant in charge. He would tell her what a lovely boarding experience he’d just enjoyed, and how he’d already noticed the professionalism and genuine caring she was extending, not just to him but to all the passengers as they came aboard. He asked for her name, and how to write a letter praising her to her supervisor. Invariably, she would fly into a complete tizzy, vehemently insisting that she hadn’t done anything yet. But Aaron was adamant; he was equally insistent that he could already see how terrific she was, and that he couldn’t live with himself if he didn’t immediately begin writing his note. The inevitable upshot was, of course, that not only she but all the other service crew fell all over themselves, hour after hour, waiting hand and foot on Aaron—eagerly and even anxiously trying to anticipate his every need and want. He made a game out of it. It was a game he always won, just as you can.
