# Chapter 68: Tipping

You may already have realized that the attitude oxygenating practice of thank you notes works not just through the writing of the notes themselves, but by forcing you to key yourself up every day with the expectation that you’re going to find nice people doing nice things that you can write to them and their managers about. You’ve tricked yourself constantly to be looking for the joy in everyday life, when so many prospecting advisors are looking for nothing but trouble—anticipating that fiftieth tomahawk blow of the day.

68 Tipping ONE MORNING MANY YEARS AGO, I WAS AT THE LOVELY BARTON Creek Resort in the hills outside Austin, Texas, for a speaking engagement at the headquarters of Directional Fund Advisors. This hotel combines its sundry shop with a coffee station, and on this morning it was staffed by a young woman whom I took to be a graduate student at the university, working a part-time job. I bought a large coffee, the Wall Street Journal, and a beautiful postcard of Texas wildflowers to send to my grandchildren, to whom I always wrote whenever I was on the road. The cost was something over seven dollars. When the young woman handed me back my change from a $10 bill, I put a dollar in her jar. She stopped, looked at the dollar, and said, “Thank you.” Then she said, “I just paid my bills for this month.” And then she said, “Thank you,” again. What is this story about? It’s about the wildly disproportionate cost of tipping in relation to the effect it may have on the person being tipped—and, much more to the point, on your soul. That dollar meant less than nothing to me, nor can it have altered the financial status of the young woman in even the slightest measure. And yet, for a moment, it seemed to mean the world to her.

Thus, as tipping always does, it endowed me with a truly beautiful moment of my own—one that carried me through the rest of my day. (I went to my speaking engagement an hour or so later, and—as the poet sings—blew that room away. Think that was a coincidence? I sure don’t.) I’m a very good tipper. The thing I would have you understand is that I’m a good tipper for almost purely selfish reasons. The principle is quite simple: the emotional/attitudinal payback I get from the tip is an immeasurably huge multiple of the tip’s financial cost. On any given day, it may literally be the best money I spend. (It certainly was that day in Austin.) Stop to think of all the people you encounter every day whose tip income may be the difference between surviving and living—cab drivers, waitstaff, the shoe shine guy, hotel chambermaids, and so on. I rarely check into a hotel room that isn’t pristine (Marriotts, for the money, are always the best). And every morning, you see those women working their way down the hall, making those rooms spotless all over again, for something probably not that much more than minimum wage. How do I walk out of my room—on my way to a five-figure day— and not leave a $10 bill on my pillow? Answer: I don’t. Wouldn’t dream of it. And there’s a spring in my step that mightn’t otherwise be there, because I know that ten-spot may emotionally if not financially make somebody’s day.
