# Chapter 69: Take It from Here

Remember what we said about gratitude, back in the “Belief ” section: that you’re going to want to keep Thanksgiving every day in your heart. You’re on a sure and certain path to a million dollar practice. Most folks you’ll meet today—not to put too fine a point on it—aren’t. Consider sharing your bounty with people who are working to deserve it. You’ll find that you can’t give the money— nor even the gesture—away. It’ll snap right back at you.

69 Take It from Here I’M REASONABLY CONFIDENT THAT YOU’RE GETTING MY DRIFT, AND can take the principle of attitude oxygenation from here—putting your own joyful, creative, personal spin on it. I know an advisor who never drives through a highway toll booth without paying the toll of the car behind him. You can hear him cackling down the road for the next five miles. Another, who has almost religiously flown first class as long as I’ve known him, these days grabs somebody in a military uniform who’s heading back to deepest coach, and either upgrades him or swaps seats with him. We’re limited only by our imagination and the capacity of our hearts. High-volume prospecting can tear at your soul sometimes. It can try to make you dour, and sour, and kind of angry at the world. But anger hurts, and pain will always trigger Avoidance—the impulse to stop prospecting in order to stop the pain. Unchecked, that becomes an attitudinal downward spiral. Develop an arsenal of weapons with which to claw back your emotional equilibrium— to aerate and oxygenate your soul. Those measures aren’t just all around you. They’re in you.
