# Chapter 70: A Book of Essentials

St. Bernard of Clairvaux memorably said, “Nothing can work me damage except myself. The harm that I sustain I carry about with me, and never am a real sufferer but by my own fault.” You’re going to want to write that in your journal. Indeed, you may just want to write it out every morning of every prospecting day.

70 A Book of Essentials YOU NOW HAVE A COMPLETE TOOLBOX OF THE BELIEFS AND BEHAViors which are essential to success in building a top-tier financial services practice. You have a clear, consistent method of slowly but inexorably building your prospecting activity up to target ranges which ensure success. You know, for that matter, the critical difference between a goal and a target. You know what activities count, and how to count them. Everything else is a refinement of these most fundamental tools. A perfect example is seminars. How do you organize seminars? Refinement. On what topic(s)? Refinement. How do you build an audience? Refinement. You now know that all that matters is the decision to do a seminar on a topic about which you are passionate every 90 days for the next five years, or the decision to do none at all…but nothing in between. When you approach someone, and he says, “I’m not interested,” what do you do/say? There’s the school of thought which holds that you say, “Thanks for your time,” and move on. The other school says you try a comeback—“That’s because I haven’t given you anything to be interested in yet. Now, I’d like to offer you yada yada.”
