# Chapter 71: The Next Right Thing

Can anyone, having read this book so far, still think this matters? Can anyone think one approach yields a first-rate practice faster/ more reliably/more easily than the other? That one approach, in its essence, will defeat the law of large numbers, and that the other will be defeated by it? The message of this whole book has been: It doesn’t matter what you say; it only matters how many times you say it. And that your capacity to say it can be built up gradually but very dramatically over time, through the baseline system of endurance prospecting, liberally seasoned with anxiety management devices such as a rewards system and attitude oxygenation. The prospecting discipline, as opposed to the prospecting method/content/ verbiage, is the decisive issue. Or, if you prefer: it doesn’t matter whom you prospect, how you prospect, or what you say. It only matters that you prospect, that you gradually but steadily expand your capacity for prospecting over time, and above all that you do not stop.

71 The Next Right Thing IN THE END, PROSPECTING IS NOTHING MORE OR LESS THAN A BATtle with your own anxiety. Anxiety is unfocused dread, so it needs something to attach itself to, in order to manifest itself. It manifests as fear. This is why we don’t really know, or need to put a lot of time into trying to figure out, which particular fear is at the heart of our impulse toward Avoidance—whether it’s the fear of success, of failure, of criticism, of looking foolish, or whatever. Whichever fear it is, it’s only a costume being worn by the dark, shapeless mass that is our anxiety. So when it gets to be two o’clock of a prospecting afternoon, and your throat is closing, and you’re thinking bad thoughts about your future in this business, and faith is in very short supply, and the phone weighs 300 pounds… there’s only one thing you ever have to do. And that’s The Next Right Thing. There is no yesterday, or tomorrow. Heck, there isn’t even nightfall tonight. There’s just this next moment in time. And in that moment, there’s only one right thing to do, and that’s to make

one prospecting approach. Just one, for all eternity…because all eternity is right now. Do your deep breath exercise. Read your gratitude list. Write another nice note. Do whatever you need to do. Then do The Next Right Thing, which is the only right thing, and the only thing you ever need to do. Make one more prospecting approach.
