# Chapter 72: Skill Follows Endurance

IF YOU ARE READING THIS BOOK FOR THE FIRST TIME, I WOULD almost prefer that, rather than continuing to read straight on, you stop here, go back, and closely read the first three sections of the book again. That’s because what follows is a short and almost random disquisition on skill. And skill is a refinement. Behavior follows belief. Endurance follows behavior. Belief, behavior and endurance are thus the essentials in that order. Skill follows endurance, but—the law of large numbers operating as inexorably as it does—skill can never be decisive. It can make you more confident, more empathetic, more convincing, and ultimately more effective at the margin of a program of endurance prospecting, but that’s about all. Skill will often get you an interview you mightn’t otherwise have gotten, handle an objection which might otherwise have stymied you, and close a case you might not have otherwise. But skill can never make you successful at prospecting—which isn’t a skill at all—and prospecting is the only thing that can ever make you successful in our calling. Thus: however useful it may be, for the purposes of this book, skill is only a refinement.

Finally, many or most of the skills I’m about to suggest are to be employed once you are actually in front of a prospect. They are therefore not, in the strictest sense, prospecting skills at all. Some of them, for that matter, aren’t even skills, so much as they are attitudes and even values. They just seem to be things I want you to know—things that may make you feel, think, look and sound better than you might have otherwise, without quite so much trial and error.
