# Chapter 73: Lifestyle Is the Critical Variable in the Equation

IF THIS BOOK HAS NOT ALREADY MADE IT CLEAR—AND EVEN IF IT has—this is the place to say: lifestyle is the critical variable in every career. You are not prospecting to acquire clients, raise assets under management, and earn income as ends in themselves. You’re working to build a business that will support a happy life, as you define it. If you make a million dollars a year and don’t get to any of your kid’s soccer games, you’re a bum. You aren’t working to live; you’re living to work. You’ve gone over to the dark side of The Force. Keep everything in perspective. Keep your priorities straight. First things first. And by the way: never take home with you any negative emotions arising out of your prospecting/business frustrations. Consciously leave them in your office when you go home for the night. Literally close the door on them. Of course you’ll talk through your problems/issues with a loving and supportive life partner. But you may not take them out on him/her. There’s a critical difference. And deep down, you always know where that line is. See that you do not cross it.

Although she will deny this, I might have flunked out of the business during my first seven years as a stockbroker—when the price of the average common stock in the U.S. went down 70%—had it not been for the love, encouragement and counsel of my wife Joan. (Years later, we even wrote a book about that experience, Talking It Over Just the Two of Us: A Guide for the Financial Advisor’s Life Partner, which is still available as an online eBook on nickmurray.com.) But our daily morning meetings, which continue to this day, took place between equals working in harmony on a common goal. If you can’t check all three of those boxes—equals, harmony, common goal—don’t expect this to work.
