# Chapter 74: 'Selling' Is the Act of Principled Persuasion

74 “Selling” Is the Act of Principled Persuasion ALL FINANCIAL INDEPENDENCE FOLLOWS FROM THRIFT: THE DEFERral of gratification. Current consumption gives most people an emotional payback that, in its very immediacy, far exceeds that of putting money away, either to manage risk (insurance) or to grow for the future (investment). In a very real sense, then, most people need a kind of coach, to help them make—and to go on making, for years and decades—the difficult decision of thrift. They need to be persuaded to do with their money what they need to do rather than what they want to do. This is really the essence of our calling. That set of skills is sometimes dismissed, by people who don’t understand it, as “sales,” and is regarded as something distasteful. It is, in fact, a thing of the highest potential nobility. “Selling,” as the best of us practice it, is principled persuasion. We try to help people make the difficult decision not to enjoy their money today, to their greater future benefit. You tell yourself you came into this business for its very high income potential, and that’s certainly a major element of your motivation. But if you have any soul at all—though you may not go around saying this out loud—you came into this profession to help

people. And found that your capacity to help them was even greater than you had imagined, but that it existed only in potential. First, you had to persuade them to do the right thing. You discovered that financial independence is something on which many or most people need to be “sold.” Your “sales skill”—that is, your artistry in the practice of principled persuasion—is something to be nurtured and developed with pride. That sense of honor about what you do can be an important source of strength, as you work your program of endurance prospecting. Let it shine on your prospects; the right ones will see that light of how much you’re genuinely trying to help them.
