# Chapter 75: The Single Greatest Skill

AS YOUR NEW PROSPECTING PROGRAM BEGINS YIELDING APPOINTments, consider this method of assessing how effective you are. As you interact with your prospect—since you’re going to have a yellow pad and a pencil on your lap anyway—jot down an X every time you ask a question, and an O each time you make a declarative statement. The ratio of one to the other will tell you how you’re doing. Specifically, the more X’s—that is, the more questions you’re asking, both absolutely and relative to the O’s—the better you’re doing. Financial planning is first and foremost a discovery process. As in the practice of medicine, the more information you can coax out of the prospect, the sooner you can arrive at an authoritative diagnosis, and the more confidently you can prescribe an effective course of treatment. Making statements, regardless of how true they are, only gets in the way of your learning more about your prospect— and showing him how genuinely interested you are in him. Moreover, skillful questioning bespeaks a very real confidence on your part. By practicing it, you gently set and maintain the agenda, which is actually critical to the success of your effort. This is simply because getting your prospect on the path to financial indepen-

dence—or restoring him to it—is at the top of your agenda in this interview. But there’s no reason to assume it’s at the top of his. You’re the professional. No matter how affluent and accomplished your prospect may be in his field, when you and he sit down to talk about financial independence, you’re the professional. Professionals don’t start by making statements. They start—and may go along for quite some—asking perceptive questions. People outside our profession—and even some inside it who don’t really understand it—think we’re supposed to be great talkers. But the best of us are genuinely world-class listeners. Indeed, with the possible exception of therapists—to whose function ours occasionally bears a startling similarity—we’re the best listeners on earth. There is no higher, finer, more important “sales skill” than asking great questions and listening intently to the answers—not just to what is said, but to what it means. And especially to what is not said. When you start to be able to hear what the prospects are not saying, you’re closing in on mastery of this first and greatest skill.
