# Chapter 76: The First Rule of Discourse

AFTER THE THRESHOLD ISSUE OF ASKING QUESTIONS INSTEAD OF making statements, there are three great rules of discourse—three principles which must constantly (and consciously) govern what we say and, even more importantly, the way we say it. Rule One is: Simplify it. The Nobel Prize-winning physicist Richard Feynman famously said, “If it isn’t simple, it isn’t true.” The iconic jazz trumpeter Dizzy Gillespie said, “It’s taken me all my life to learn what not to play.” They were both saying the same thing. So was Thomas Jefferson, when he looked back on his association with two of the greatest men of his time: “I served with General Washington in the legislature of Virginia before the Revolution, and during it with Dr. Franklin in Congress. I never heard either of them speak 10 minutes at a time, nor to any but the main point that was to decide the question. They laid their shoulders to the great points, knowing that the little ones would follow of themselves.” Financial planning, life insurance and investments can be complex in their applications, but are always simple in terms of the

human needs which create the demand for them. And it is always the simplicity of the need, rather than the complexities of the applications, to which we should be speaking. For example, the essential financial fact of the retired lives of the baby boomers can be expressed to them in 10 words: every year, everything you need to buy will cost more. All the complexities fade into insignificance in the face of one threshold question: over three decades of retirement—given their inexorably rising living costs—will the people outlive their money, or will their money outlive the people? Causing the trajectory of people’s retirement income to track (at the very least) the trajectory of their rising living costs—so that the one continues to offset the other, enabling people to sustain their lifestyle without spending down their capital—is the first if not the only rational goal of retirement income investing. Thus we see that people can never arrive at the right answer until they have the essential question framed in the right terms. And the essential question is always simple. (How do we cause people’s income to track their living costs? Let me suggest the answer by repeating this wonderful factoid, in full confidence that you can reason it out from here. Since 1935, the Consumer Price Index has compounded at about three percent a year. The dividend of the S&P 500-Stock Index has compounded at almost twice that rate. Got it?)

Something similar is true, I think, with estate taxation, which (literally) after retirement is the greatest financial issue affluent people have to face. Simply stated: under current law, above some threshold, roughly half of an estate is taxed away at the death of the second spouse. How much will that be, in your prospect’s case, and where will the money come from? In other words, what is the most efficient, least expensive way to fund this inevitable liability without forcing the heirs to sell things they wish to be able to keep? Amateurs focus relentlessly and even obsessively on the complexities. Professionals focus single-mindedly on—and keep bringing the discussion back to—the simplest needs and especially to the simplest solutions.
