# Chapter 77: The Second Rule of Discourse

RULE TWO IS: HUMANIZE IT. “Inflation” is a surprisingly amorphous and abstract concept that may mean a hundred different things to as many people. We want to stay as far away from abstraction as we possibly can, and we do not want to litter our discourse with vague concepts to which the prospect is liable to attach his own interpretation—and we won’t know what that is. “The constantly rising cost of everything you need to buy in retirement—food, heat and light, medical care” is a concrete, vivid, human and above all intuitive idea. That is, even people who believe that “inflation” isn’t going to be much of an economic problem in the future know that every year, everything they need to buy will cost more. It’s the difference between an economic abstraction and a human reality. And it is in terms of those human realities that professionals always speak. Amateur advisors talk about the standard deviation of a retirement investment portfolio, about its beta, and about its Sharpe ratio, trying to prove something that ultimately can’t be proven, and which the prospect wouldn’t understand even if it could. Professionals speak about the need for an income that rises along with the cost

of living “so that you continue to be able to maintain your dignity and independence in retirement.” I can go on and on like this, but I think you get the point. (Now all you need do is practice it until it becomes part of you.) Professionals work from places in the heart; amateurs are forever pointing at places on some chart.
