# Chapter 78: The Third Rule of Discourse

RULE THREE IS: PERSONALIZE IT. Beyond avoiding abstraction and generalization, and even beyond reducing the issues to the most basic human needs, we aren’t finished until we have denominated the discussion in terms of the prospect herself, her household and her family. What is most important to her? What are her personal notions of dignity and independence in retirement? What are her fondest financial hopes? What are her deepest financial fears? How was money talked about in her home when she was growing up? Was it in terms of scarcity, or abundance? (Was it talked about at all?) Does she expect good outcomes from intelligent investing, or does she fear disaster? Has she had any particularly good, or any memorably bad, experiences of money and investing in the past that might color her outlook? You must always be beaming at a prospect, as powerfully as you can, four essential ideas: -  I am deeply interested in what is most important to you.

-  I will invest all the time it takes fully to understand—and to empathize with—your personal financial hopes and fears. I will respect your feelings on these matters, simply because they are your feelings. -  I’m not the universal expert; I’m more of a wrangler of experts. I will work with the full panoply of the technical resources and personnel at my command to find solutions best suited to your personal situation. But no one will ever understand that personal situation better, nor care about it more, than I do. -  I will always seek the solution which is simplest, most efficient and most effective for you. I will never ask you to implement that solution unless and until you fully understand it and believe in it, which are not two ways of saying the same thing. Simplify it. Humanize it. Personalize it. The more conscious you are that that’s the desired sequence of any prospect interview, and the more adept you become at moving smartly through that sequence as sincerely and as convincingly as you can, the better the chance that your prospect will let down his guard, as he comes to accept that you are not someone against whom he needs to defend himself.
