# Chapter 79: Begin Drawing Your Circle of Competence

YOU CAN’T BE THE EXPERT IN EVERYTHING. THIS PERCEPTION IS UNdeniably true, but it doesn’t really get you anywhere. It just frames an important question. The statement implies that there are particular areas of the profession that you will choose to learn about and work on, because they interest you, because you care about them, and because you believe you can be good at them. Regarding everything else, you’ll choose to use your in-house experts, to use your vendors’ experts, to outsource, or to ignore altogether. As you start to make those choices, what you’re actually doing is beginning to draw around yourself your own unique professional circle of competence. This shouldn’t be something into which you just let yourself drift. It goes straight to the issue of who you are, professionally, or rather who you have made up your mind to become. Thus, your very first day in the business is not a moment too soon to begin consciously thinking about what you want to be good at.

The temptation, at the beginning of a career, is just to be a generalist, which is usually a euphemism for, “I’ll take just about any business I can get, from just about anybody who’ll do business with me.” This is simply postponing the decisions you’ll ultimately have to make. And the longer you postpone them, the harder they’ll be to make, because you’ll have to cut loose a lot of people you probably shouldn’t have taken on in the first place. This is never easy to do, and never feels good, even when you’re right to do it. It seems to me, as this third decade of the twenty-first century gets under way, that the high-potential choices of specialization are fairly obvious. Or at least two of them are: retirement income planning and estate planning. This is where all the money is, or will end up. The decisions that have to be made get very big and very important, and people are less inclined to try to make those decisions without a lot of advice, because they know they don’t know enough about these issues, and because there’s so much riding on them. So we’ve got: (a) large concentrations of money in motion, (b) with a certain amount of urgency as retirement looms for millions of people (while death looms for us all), and (c) issues too complex and technical to be handled by the 23-year-olds on the help desk at some robo advisor or DirtCheapTermInsurance.com. This sure sounds like a species of no-brainer to me, but you have to make up your own mind. Besides, I’m not trying to vector you toward any particular career specialization, as such. I’m simply

trying to get you thinking about making conscious choices—about drawing your circle. By its very nature the circle, as it encloses what’s inside of it, also tells you everything that falls outside. And there’ll be some decisions to be made there, too, about who’s going to work on the aspects of planning that you don’t care to become expert in—and how they’re going to work on those issues. What we’re trying to do here is to make sure you arrive at those decisions consciously, and not by default.
