# Chapter 80: Portfolio Management: Outside Everybody's Circle

80 Portfolio Management: Outside Everybody’s Circle REGARDLESS OF WHAT ELSE IS INSIDE OR OUTSIDE YOUR CIRCLE OF competence, make sure that active portfolio management—you picking securities, funds or other vehicles to “outperform,” and timing the purchases and sales thereof—stays just about as far outside the circle as you can throw it. There is no future for you—and, heaven knows, no sustainable value proposition—in timing and selection. No shame in this: nobody doing portfolio management part-time, the way a personal financial planner/advisor has to do it, can consistently “outperform.” (Heck, most full-time professional portfolio managers can’t, either.) Moreover, there is no statistical evidence for the persistence of performance. So all the stars, performance numbers, Sharpe ratios, alphas, betas and standard deviations in the world tell you precisely zero about future relative—and even absolute— performance. Your firm has all manner of model portfolios of every description, and outsourcing opportunities which offer not just portfolios but asset allocation and rebalancing. Use them. You’re a financial planner, not an economist, a market prognosticator or a fund performance handicapper.

As a retirement income planner, for example, you’re required to think in 30-year time clips. Nobody working in those time horizons should even have an economic or market outlook. First of all, it’ll probably be wrong. Second, it transmogrifies your work from a lifetime plan into a speculation about the markets. Third and most important, over 30 years, it simply won’t matter what the markets do next. (It’ll matter (a) that you owned mostly equities not mostly bonds; (b) that you stayed broadly diversified instead of serially chasing hot sectors; and (c) that you didn’t panic out of temporary market declines, nor bet the ranch on some “new era” fad.) I can’t overstress this. Second only to ceasing to prospect, the surest path to a blighted, underachieving and bitterly unhappy career is to get hooked on the drug of markets—and then to become a drug dealer in order to support your own habit.
