# Chapter 81: Behavior Is the Eight Hundred Pound Gorilla

IF SELECTION AND TIMING AREN’T THE SOURCE OF THE ADVISOR’S value with respect to investment portfolios, what is? Why, behavior management, of course. Preventing the investor from blowing himself up. Helping him suppress the urge to chase some red hot “paradigm shift” near its top, or to panic entirely out of equities near their bottom. I’m just going to say this one last time: The dominant determinant of long-term, real-life investment outcomes isn’t investment performance; it’s investor behavior. The highest-value thing you can do for people with respect to their investments is to coach them out of their proclivity to inappropriate behavior. There are numberless examples of self-destructive behaviors, but here’s my all-time favorite. The best-performing equity fund in America for the “lost decade” 2000 through 2009 returned an average of 18.2% a year for those 10 years. The average investor in that fund during the same period enjoyed an average annual return of minus 11%. How?

The fund returned 80% in 2007. On the announcement of that number, all the knuckle-dragging performance chasers in the world stampeded in. Whereupon the fund went down 48% in 2008. That is, the average dollar invested in that fund during those 10 years came in right at the tippy, tippy top, and immediately lost half its value. That’s a true story. What does it demonstrate? That in the end, behavior matters more than all the other determinants of return put together. And that, in the end, a wise behavioral investment counselor is worth multiples of what she costs the investor. Even if you just got your securities license an hour ago, you should find it hugely liberating and empowering to realize that human nature, left to its own devices, is a failed investor. Because it tells you that the value of your ability to guide people toward consistently rational, productive behavior is hugely greater than what you charge. Indeed, at critical market turning points, wise behavioral counsel becomes literally priceless.
