# Chapter 82: Listen to Yourself, Too

I’VE ALREADY MADE A GREAT TO-DO ABOUT THE CARDINAL ADVISORY virtue: listening. But that was a reference to the act of listening to the prospect. Let me here suggest the equal importance of listening to yourself—again, not so much to what you’re saying, but to the way you’re saying it. It is a long-proven scientific fact that the huge preponderance of human communication is non-verbal. In short, the way we say what we say turns out to be much more important than what we say. Thus, if it is critically important that we work to control the agenda of a prospect meeting, it is at least equally important that we control its tone. Think about letting the tension out of the prospect encounter, as opposed to—through your own nervousness—adding to it. Like water seeking its own level, all conversations usually tend to gravitate toward the emotional level of the most relaxed person in the room. Strive consciously to be that person. Put people at their ease, to the extent that they’ll allow you to do so. This will, on occasion, entail waiting them out. If you are extolling the epic victory of dividend growth over inflation to a prospect, just at a moment “the stock market” is cratering, the prospect may

start jumping up and down, screaming, “It’s the end of the world! We’re all going to be wiped out!” Only three outcomes are then possible. (1) The conversation ends, because your serenity only makes him crazier. (2) His hysteria infects you, so that now there are two nutcases jumping around and screaming. (3) Your serenity calms him down to the point where some rational, long-term planning discourse becomes possible again. Clearly, we’re seeking Door Number Three. This takes practice, and practice only comes with a lot of appointments, and a lot of appointments only come from…endurance prospecting. At least once a week for the next year, record yourself practicing a presentation. Listen to it as dispassionately as you can: do I respond to the way this person expresses himself? Do I like the way he sounds? Recording yourself can’t fail to help you get better, faster.
