# Chapter 83: Write Out What You're Going to Say

83 Write Out What You’re Going to Say WHEN I STARTED OUT—AND FOR QUITE A LONG TIME AFTERWARD—I was so terrified of talking to affluent, older people that I literally wrote out, word for word, my presentations. I still think this is a great discipline. When you’re going into a meeting with a clear idea of what you want a prospect to do, you’re sure to be that much more effective if you know pretty much exactly what you’re going to say. Write it out, at the very least in outline, but preferably word for word. Then make a list of the obvious questions and/or potential objections the prospect might be expected to raise, and write out crisp, economical responses thereto. Practice and record. Then start cutting it down. We live in the golden age of total information overload. People simply get too much shrill, staccato, and mostly stupid input, sought and unsought, on every subject and from every direction. Particularly in the financial arena, all this noise tends to be perfectly contradictory: for every talking head or online blog that says one thing, another says the opposite—often within minutes of each other.

So remember the following hierarchy, and build your career on it. -  Data isn’t information. -  Information isn’t knowledge. -  And above all, knowledge isn’t wisdom. We ought not to be talking about what the market is going to do (especially since no one knows), nor which fund/ETF is going to outperform its peers (which is statistically unknowable), nor which variable universal life policy will be least expensive in the long run (which I’m not sure even God knows). We should be talking about what history and long-term perspective tell us is the wisest course of action for the prospect, given his uniquely personal financial needs. We sell wisdom. Above all, we should not be trying to prove anything. Nothing proves anything about the future. Wisdom is, in that sense, the practice of rationality under uncertainty. The threshold issues are always simple, if we don’t overcomplicate them, trying to prove something. So look carefully at what you propose to say, and listen to how you propose to say it. Are you a wise counselor, authoritatively recommending the simplest, most efficient course of action? Or are you a lawyer filing a legal brief—pulling in every argument, precedent, case and statistic that might have any bearing—becoming, in ef-

fect, a part of the prospect’s information-overload problem rather than the key to its solution? Remember too that the human mind is incapable of processing more than three important ideas in one sitting. If you think you have more than three critical truths to tell your prospect, (a) you’re almost certainly wrong, because the threshold issues are always simpler than that, and (b) he won’t act on your recommendation because he can’t grasp everything you’re saying, and that will frighten him. The more “evidence” you present, the more insecure you show yourself to be. The simpler and more deeply felt your statement, the more powerfully convincing it is. In the end, there is only one reason that a prospect should follow your advice, and that is because it is your advice. The messenger is the message. All the charts, graphs, illustrations and hypotheticals in the world will not convince him if he fundamentally doubts you personally. Conversely, when he believes in you, all that other stuff becomes secondary, if not irrelevant. Never seek to be understood, as an end in itself. Seek to be believed, because you yourself believe.
