# Chapter 84: Q&A: What's the Question Behind the Question?

84 Q&A: What’s the Question Behind the Question? ALL RIGHT, SO YOU’VE MADE YOUR AUTHORITATIVE, SIMPLE AND brave statement of what the prospect should do, concentrating—as I hope has become obvious to you—not on what the solution is, or how it works, so much as on what it will do for the prospect— how it simply, efficiently and even elegantly solves his problem. One of two things will happen next. (1) He will rapturously sign up, which would be good. Or (2), somewhat more probably, he will ask a question, or raise an objection. Let me reveal to you now the highest, indeed the transcendent, skill at answering a question or an objection: Don’t. First off, there’s the issue of control of the agenda. When you’re making your presentation—never neglecting to get agreement on each major point as you come to it—you’re controlling the agenda. But when your prospect starts voicing questions/objections, he is (albeit unconsciously) attempting to take control back. This he must not be permitted to do. He won’t know what to do with it, and there’s a real chance he’ll drive it over a cliff.

Next, there is the issue of “the defensive.” It may appear to the untrained eye (especially the prospect’s) that when he begins firing off questions or objections, you are put on “the defensive.” This impression must be shot out of the saddle even before it goes for its gun. You are never on the defensive, for the simple but very compelling reason that you have nothing to defend. You have proposed the solution to his problem which is simplest, most efficient and historically most effective. You stand ready to explain it—or have your expert explain it—in whatever detail the prospect and his advisors may need. But you certainly don’t need to defend it, because there’s nothing wrong with it. If this sublime truth is seated at your heart as the questioning begins, you’ll probably do fine, as soon as we refine a few basic skills for you. If it’s not, the prospect is going to eat your lunch. Vow to yourself this instant that you will never ask another human being to understand and believe in your solution more than you yourself understand and believe in it. Finally, the reason you must never respond directly to a stated question or objection is that it is virtually never the real question or objection. You need to find out what’s behind it.
