# Chapter 85: Perfecting the Non-Answer

THERE ARE BASICALLY THREE WAYS OF BEING ENGAGINGLY NONresponsive to a stated question or objection. Here’s one: Prospect: “The market’s too high right now.” You (smiling): “If you think it’s too high now, wait ’til you see it in about 10 years.” The discipline is to shut up once you’ve said this—to almost force the prospect to say something else, even if it’s just, “What do you mean?” Then you can make your little statement about where the market was 10, 20 and 30 years ago—30 always being the magic number, because we’re always dealing with roughly 30-year two-person retirements. Another example of this tactic: Prospect: “How can you recommend investing now? The market’s going down.” You (smiling): “Beats the heck out of buying when the market’s up.” (Silence)

Again, this is just a non-responsive statement of a truth so great and so self-evident that you clearly don’t feel the need to amplify the answer. You’re just demonstrating how imperturbable you are, and seeing what he’ll say next. Then you’ll give your little speech about how you buy everything in your life more aggressively and happily when it’s on sale, so why not investments? A second tactic is answering with a question: Prospect: “The unemployment numbers just came out, and they’re terrible.” You: “How do you think that might affect your 30-year retirement income plan?” (Silence) Implicit in this response is the fact that whatever he claims is bothering him quite clearly isn’t bothering you; the communication of this from you to him is a victory in itself. He’ll now have to amplify his objection—which is just another variation on the fundamentally silly notion that you can’t buy when the market’s going down. And you’ll gently ask when the heck else anyone would ever really want to buy. If you can’t time the market—and heaven knows no one can—far better to be buying when prices are relatively low, even if they temporarily go lower. The third non-response is just asking, “Why?”

Prospect: “I think these government deficits are going to ruin the economy.” You: “How would you envision that happening?” He won’t really know how, and will amply demonstrate this. Then you’ll come back with your little speech about how nothing “ruins” the economy in the long run—even the total collapse of the global financial system in 2008-09 couldn’t do it—and how every “crisis” in history has turned out to be a buying opportunity. I’m much less interested in which tactic you use, or even in how you phrase it, than I am in the general principle: that you never respond directly to a stated question/objection, in order to demonstrate your confidence, buy some time, and try to get at the halfformed but even more real concern that may be lurking behind the stated one.
