# Chapter 87: Go Out with Class, and Leave the Door Open

FROM TIME TO TIME, YOU WILL PRESENT A PLAN/PORTFOLIO TO PROspective clients, only to have them choose another firm’s proposal. Amateurs experience this as “losing” to the “competition.” Professionals suspect that the prospects may have been beguiled by promises the other firm will not, in the long run, be able to keep. When that firm’s claims—e.g. “higher returns with less risk”—blow up, you want the prospects to remember you. Not in the sense of “She told us so,” but as someone whose door might still be open. I suggest, when such prospects have decided against you, that you write them a personal (snail-mail) note, along these lines: Dear Nigel and Phoebe, I want first of all to thank you for the time you invested in considering (me or our firm) to serve as your financial advisor. I continue to believe that we could have served you better in the long run, but I’m certainly not trying to reopen that discussion. Rather—in addition to expressing my thanks—I’d like to leave you with a standing offer.

A day may come when economic or market events prompt you to wish for an objective second opinion from a friend you can trust. On that day, I hope you will know me to be that friend. In the meantime, I sincerely wish you every financial success and personal happiness. With best wishes, You’re going to be in this business for a long, long time, which means you’ll get to see a great many hot strategies and products implode. And when your prospects’ new relationship begins to go sideways, this note may render them somewhat less reluctant to ask if you would speak with them. Again, only when you like the prospects, always try to leave them with the clear impression that “I’ll be here when you get back.”
