# Coda: Optimism Is the Only Realism

Optimism Is the Only Realism SOME YEARS AGO, PAUL ROMER—A NOBEL LAUREATE IN ECOnomics—wrote: “Every generation has perceived the limits to growth that finite resources and undesirable side effects would pose if no new recipes or ideas were discovered. And every generation has underestimated the potential for finding new recipes and ideas. We consistently fail to grasp how many ideas remain to be discovered.” You are going to spend your entire career—heck, your whole life— in a world that is very rapidly improving in virtually every important way. While you’re doing that, the default attitudinal setting of the people living all around you will be the belief that the world is going to hell in a handbasket. Don’t buy into it. Optimism is the only long-term realism. It’s the only worldview that squares with the facts, and with the historical record. This has never been truer than it is right now. -  Even as recently as 50 years ago, more than half the people on the planet lived in extreme poverty, and about the same percentage were illiterate. Today those percentages are 10% and 15% respectively. Indeed, at the rate they are falling, extreme

poverty and illiteracy may be functionally eradicated over the next quarter century. But you will never see a headline that says, “About 250,000 people in the world escaped extreme poverty today,” or “Nearly 300,000 people got access to clean water today for the first time in their lives,” or “Half a million of the world’s people got online today for the first time ever”—even though all those headlines would be factually correct. -  Since 1900, life expectancy has doubled. It continues to increase at just less than two and a half years per decade—or about six hours a day. -  Even as the world’s population has soared, the proportion who lack sufficient food has fallen sharply, and is projected to decline further still. In 1961, world grain production was 760 million tons; in 2015 that figure was 2.4 billion tons. Yield numbers for dairy and meat rose by about the same factor; that is, food production trebled while global population doubled. Meanwhile, total land devoted to agriculture has already peaked. -  Even more dramatic in terms of the number of people affected is the rapid expansion of the global middle class. In the world today—according to researchers at the Brookings Institution— even as one person escapes extreme poverty every second, five people a second are being drawn up into the middle class.

Already the largest segment of demand in the global economy, the middle class is also the most rapidly growing. -  The smartphone in a middle school child’s backpack today contains more computing power than existed on earth in 1950. Should she care to, that young person can use her smartphone to access virtually all the information in the world, on any subject, for free. If the specific information she needs happens to be in another language, the device will translate it for her. These capabilities were not merely unavailable 50 years ago: they were inconceivable. -  Fifty years ago it was considered inevitable that the world would run completely out of oil, and relatively soon. Today, after half a century of increasing consumption of hydrocarbon energy, global proven reserves of oil and gas are greater than they were in 1970. Adjusted for inflation, the average price of oil in 2020 was about a third of its peak in 1980. -  In the United States, real (inflation-adjusted) disposable personal income per capita went from $12,500 at the end of 1960 to $48,500 in 2020. What advanced society has ever quadrupled its people’s real income in so little time? Is it any wonder, then, that the S&P 500 has gone from 58 to where it is now? One can go on and on like this: the world is continuing to get cleaner, healthier, longer-lived, richer and more productive. Yes,

climate change is real, and yes, it’s manageable. Yes, incomes and wealth are unequal—and will be, so long as intelligence, personal initiative, hard work, thrift and grit are unequally distributed in the population, and people are free to better themselves. (I need hardly remind you that you yourself are reading this book in the first place because you are highly desirous of having your income and wealth get as unequal as possible as quickly as possible.) But the cacophony of catastrophism that constantly bombards your potential clients is, and will always be, wrong on the big things. In its own way, this is just another window into the wonderful opportunity that is open to you as a financial advisor. Because on any given day, yours may be the only voice of rational long-term optimism a potential client will hear.
