# Preface

Preface Welcome to one of the noblest professions you could possibly have chosen: that of helping people find lasting financial peace. I maintain that the impulses that drew you to financial planning were threefold. I don’t claim that you were entirely conscious of these purposes, any more than I was as the 24-year-old who got his stockbroker license with E. F. Hutton & Company more than 50 years ago. But you can be sure they’re there, in you, waiting to be made manifest. We become financial planners N 	To do good N 	To do well by doing good N 	To be happy doing well by doing good Note that the first and greatest impulse in this starkly beautiful hierarchy is that you commit your professional life to doing good for other people. What wonderful things this says about you! It means that you seek a life of significance, and even transcendence, in service to your fellow man. Yes, you burn to do good, and to prosper thereby. But first you have to find people who will allow you to do good for them. You have to develop the discipline of client acquisition. Then you have to go on practicing that discipline, with passion and perseverance, for as long as it takes.

And be assured: you will succeed. Indeed, put completely out of your mind the possibility that you may fall short of all you desire to achieve in this profession. And I say again: put the possibility of failure right out of your mind, for that is the only place it exists. The real world, as you’ll see momentarily in my Introduction, teems with people in desperate need of cogent, clear, empathetic financial planning. You may be absolutely sure that no American family is capable of marshaling its financial resources optimally— or even adequately—without a financial planner. That is, without you. You will never run out of prospective clients. But also, in the real world, you will probably have to offer your invaluable and even priceless services to a significant number of people who will misguidedly decline your help, for every one family who embraces it. That has nothing to do with you. It’s simply the nature of the prospecting process. And so long as you keep prospecting, that process will continue yielding up to you people who will gratefully follow your advice. Until the inevitable day when you look around and find that you’ve achieved everything you dared hope for—and so much more. That is the dream that ultimately—after years of struggle—came true for me. And it is the dream that must and will come true for you if—but only if—you never stop prospecting until it does. —Nick Murray
