# Resources

Resources -  Especially for those of you who trained or are training on the life/disability/long-term care insurance side of the financial planning process, a simply indispensable resource is Joe Jordan’s book Living a Life of Significance. But even those coming up on the investment/wealth management side need to read it, if only to see what your training may be failing to give proper weight. The first law of holistic financial planning is “We insure against what can go wrong in order to earn the luxury of investing for what can go right.” No one has ever written as passionately about the protection piece as does Joe. -  Intelligence and erudition are not closely correlated to success in the practice of financial services. As you’ve seen, ours is a profession of doing rather than of knowing. And we can always learn by doing, but we can never do by learning. Thus, success in what we do is much more a function of character than of intellect. The key character trait in successful client acquisition is, in one word, grit, which is the marriage of passion and perseverance. By far the best book on this subject is simply and wonderfully titled Grit, by the MacArthur genius grant-winning University of Pennsylvania psychologist Angela Duckworth. It is beautiful, accessible and deeply humane. -  A great many well-intentioned, highly motivated people come to the financial planning profession—and especially to the wealth management piece—with no real background in economics. If

R ES O U R C ES allowed to persist, this will turn out to be a serious handicap; it should be addressed as soon as possible. From a standing start, your best resource by far is Hillsdale College’s online course Economics 101: The Principles of Free Market Economics. It consists of 10 lectures averaging 33 minutes each. It’s not to be missed. And it’s free. -  An amazing and not at all obvious resource is Steven Pressfield’s iconic self-help book The War of Art: Break Through the Blocks and Win Your Inner Creative Battles. Ten years ago, this book liberated me to write the first edition of the book you’re reading now. (I think Joe Jordan might say the same about Significance.) What Pressfield calls Resistance I call Avoidance. They are just different names for the same evil (and entirely self-generated) phenomenon. When you come to realize that TGON and TWOA are in essence the same book, you’ll have figured it all out. -  Another useful book is Ryan Holiday’s The Obstacle Is the Way: The Timeless Art of Turning Trials into Triumph. Mr. Holiday is a popularizer, for modern audiences, of the Stoic philosophers, chief among whom was the Roman emperor Marcus Aurelius. The Stoics’ main idea is that nothing that happens to us carries any but the emotional weight we elect to give it. (Remember “Rejection doesn’t hurt, and it isn’t even rejection”?) Socrates, at his trial, gently reminded the Athenians that they could put him to death if they chose to, but that it was not in their power to harm him. That’s perhaps the most dramatic demonstration of the philosophy, and this book will help you get to that good place.

-  I’ve made numerous references in this book to the sales psychologist Aaron Hemsley, with whom I got to spend a life-forwarding day in the early 1980s. Aaron’s great achievement was applying the textbook principles of behavioral psychology to the financial service industry’s client acquisition process, and his insights form the spine of the “Endurance” section of this book. Aaron’s daughter Darci Hemsley Brown has further deepened and strengthened his work, offering a 10-week behavioral coaching program, preceded by a great deal of interactive preparation and a year of follow-up. It is, to my mind, the most intense and effective program of its kind in our industry. Darci also offers a full library of Aaron’s recorded work; she can be reached at ahinfo@aaronhemsley.com. -  With respect to the thesis that optimism is the only realism, the most readable, most graphically captivating and in some ways most encyclopedic treatment of the subject is Ten Global Trends Every Smart Person Should Know by Ronald Bailey and Marian L. Tupy. In barely 200 richly illustrated pages, this book may totally alter the way you look at the world. (Two other classic treatments of the same general theme are Matt Ridley’s The Rational Optimist and the late Hans Rosling’s Factfulness.) A very user-friendly exposition of the seemingly contradictory truth that climate change is both very real and eminently manageable is Michael Shellenberger’s Apocalypse Never: Why Environmental Alarmism Hurts Us All.
